James Madison wrote in 1791 that “where an excess of power prevails, property of no sort is duly respected. No man is safe in his opinions, his person, his faculties, or his possessions.”[1] Sophocles’ Oedipus Rex, written in 429 BCE, is a play about Oedipus, newly crowned king of Thebes, and his journey to discovering that he has fulfilled the tragic fate set out for him by the gods: that he will marry his mother and kill his father. Consistent throughout the play are depictions of the differences between divine relationships with ordinary people, represented by the Chorus, and those within the upper echelons of society, particularly Oedipus himself. Through these relationships, Oedipus Rex demonstrates that with political power comes exposure to the will of the divine, in both its most generous and most cruel forms. 
The chorus, ordinary citizens of Thebes, have great reverence for the gods, but at no point do they serve as the subject or function of divine will. Rather, they passively react to the relations between Oedipus and the gods, indicating their relative insignificance in terms of the mundane interests of the gods. In their first monologue of the play, the chorus chants, “Apollo, Healer of Delos, I worship you in dread [...]” (lines 173-74). Their fear of Apollo and his power demonstrates clearly their passivity in relation to the divine, and the rift between the common person and the gods themselves. Later, after Oedipus has been confronted with the possibility of his sins, the chorus cries, “But if any man comes striding [...] no reverence for the temples of the gods — let a rough doom tear him down” (971-75). Here, the chorus simply reacts to the dialogues between holy messengers and Oedipus. At no point are their individual fates in question; it is the gods and their relationship with the king that directs the collective fate of the body politic. The chorus recognizes the supremacy of the divine and remains subservient, even when there is no direct communication between them and the gods. This stands in opposition to the experiences of Oedipus, who is given direct access to the gods through their messengers and priests.  
Oedipus’ access to divine information is constant throughout the play. In the opening dialogue, a priest of Zeus expresses that when Oedipus freesd his progeny from the Sphinx,  “a god was with you [Oedipus], so they say, and we believe it — you lifted up our lives” (48-49). The priest, who is a direct agent of the king of all gods, reveals that Oedipus, despite his being human, is powerful and great enough to warrant the accompaniment of a god. As opposed to the chorus, who are simply passive figures in the godly design, Oedipus is given direct access to a god. As king of Thebes, Oedipus’ political power warrants his elevation over ordinary people to a position of association with the gods. Later, when Tiresias, prophet of Apollo, reveals that Oedipus has fulfilled his fate by killing his father and marrying his mother, Oedipus gloats that Tiresius cannot hurt him. Tiresius admits that this is true, for “Apollo is quite enough, and he will take some pains to work this out” (428-30). In this dialogue, Tiresius communicates that Apollo has an interest in punishing Oedipus directly, revealing once again how political power is a provider of access to the divine. However, rather than receiving the support of the gods, here Oedipus is instead treated to their wrath.  Because Oedipus, as the most powerful political figure in Thebes, has unique access to divine messaging, he is also therefore a prime object of the gods’ actions.
Oedipus, who is given access to the gods’ communications by virtue of his royalty, is subsequently made victim of divine tragedy. Unlike the ordinary citizens of Thebes, whose relationship with the gods is largely indirect and passive, Oedipus is directly exposed to divine will, which leads directly to his downfall. In a dialogue, Oedipus describes how Apollo explained to him his fate when he was young: “‘You are fated to couple with your mother [….] you will kill your father” (873-75). As the son of royalty, Oedipus’ political significance is was hereditary, meaning that his access to the gods came with his birth. Apollo’s fateful premonition is an extension of this access; with the privilege of divine communication came, in Oedipus’ case, along with a tragic destiny that was designated by Apollo himself. When Oedipus finally understands that his fate has come to fruition, he cries, “I stand revealed at last — cursed in my birth […]!” (1308-9). Destined from birth to fulfill his sinful destiny, Oedipus’ privileged access to the gods proves to be the source of his fall from power to ignominy. Finally, after Oedipus has accepted the reality of his circumstance, he gouges his eyes out, declaring, “Now, loathed by the gods, son of the mother I defiled, coupling in my father’s bed [....]What grief can crown this grief?” (1493-96). As his power disintegrates in the face of his great tragedy, Oedipus comes to terms with the consequences of his direct association with the gods. Distraught, he declares that he is “loathed by the gods,” who since his birth have destined him to fall from greatness. Now, blinded and left in shambles, he has no choice but to flee Thebes, the city he once ruled, running from the power that once offered him transcendence, but ultimately led to his demise. 
Oedipus and his subjects have opposite relationships with the gods. The ordinary people of Thebes are passive observers in the world of the divine, never in direct contact with the gods or any of their messengers. Oedipus, on the other hand, is the king of Thebes, and it is through this power that he is granted access to the gods. Though he enjoys divine support on occasion, it is ultimately the gods who destroy him. From this fact, it becomes clear that while power does offer great privileges, it is precisely those privileges which can be the source of the greatest suffering. 
________________
Philosopher Immanuel Kant wrote in 1784, “Enlightenment is man’s leaving his self-caused immaturity. Immaturity is the incapacity to use one's intelligence without the guidance of another.” In Christopher Marlowe’s Dr. Faustus, the main character Faustus is deeply unsatisfied with the limits of his knowledge. Convinced that there must be more beyond what he knows as a learned scholar, Faustus ultimately decides to turn to necromancy and the devil in order to garner knowledge that would otherwise be inaccessible to humans. The religious taboo of these “dark sciences” fails to stop Faustus from engaging with them, as his own insatiable desire for greater knowledge leaves him willing to do anything to gain it. Although Dr. Faustus is ostensibly concerned with religion, Faustus himself is not actually swayed by any kind of religious moral or ethical code. Instead, Faustus acts without any deep concern for the religious implications of his actions; he uses divinity merely as a medium for the collection of power and knowledge.
        From the very beginning of the play, Faustus’ paltry concern for religious faith is clear. In his first monologue, Faustus quotes Romans 6:23, reciting in Latin, “The wages of sin is death.” Notably, however, he leaves out the second part of that sentence, which reads, “...but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our lord” (7). A scholar of divinity, Faustus is keenly cognizant of this omission, one that indicates that he is more concerned with the death of his physical body than with the afterlife. To a devout mind, this seems counterintuitive, even sacrilegious; why comment on physical death without mentioning the afterlife in Heaven? For Faustus, however, this is precisely the point. To him, death is primarily physical, and it requires no spirituality to be understood. Faustus describes only death itself, deliberately leaving out any expression of the Christian belief in the afterlife. Faustus’ ambivalence about the afterlife develops into flat-out denial later in the play, when, in a discussion with Mephistophilis, he says, “Come, I think hell’s a fable” (38). Having dismissed the existence of Heaven and rejected that of Hell, Faustus has defied some of the most defining characteristics of a religious faith: a belief in a metaphysics which transcends physical life and death. In Faustus’ view, the Christian view of the afterlife is, if not altogether illusory, secondary to the physical reality of bodily death. 
        Faustus’ indifference towards religion and its divine features lies in bold juxtaposition to his obsession with mundane knowledge and power. After explaining his discontent with his current knowledge, Faustus states that what he “most desires” is “a world of profit and delight, / Of power, of honor, of omnipotence” (7). What is most apparent here is Faustus’ desire, above all, for political, social, and economic power. He does not seek religious enlightenment or authority, and his dissatisfaction with his extant scholarship is rooted in a decidedly intellectual commitment. After he resolves to turn to necromancy to garner power, Faustus declares, “All things that move between the quiet poles / Shall be at my command” (8). In this quotation, he reveals overtly what he is really after. Rather than an eternity in Heaven, Faustus desires power on Earth. WIthout expressing any specific desire for religious authority, Faustus takes a rather secular position instead, declaring that his thirst for power is a political and environmental one, not a divine one. Divinity is used only to imagine power that transcends above even “Emperors and Kings,” who, as Faustus states, “Are but obeyed in their several provinces” (8). Not only does Faustus disregard key elements of Christian theology, but he also seeks no religious knowledge or fulfillment. This demonstrates Faustus’ total lack of concern for religion, and it begins to explain why he is willing to embrace necromancy, even when those around him express a deep religious hostility to his deviance.
        The formal religious focus of Dr. Faustus may appear somewhat incongruous with the conclusion that Faustus himself is not concerned with religion. This apparent contradiction is undermined, however, by the fact that Faustus only turns to the devil, a figure in Christianity, because he provides the most convenient route to supreme knowledge. Faustus does not turn to necromancy because it is blasphemous, but because it is the path that offers him the most power on Earth. When, at one point, Faustus begins to doubt whether the deal with the devil is worth it, a Good Angel and an Evil Angel appear to try to pull the doctor to their side. While the Good Angel expresses that if Faustus turns away from the devil, he will be rewarded with “heavenly things,” the Evil Angel ultimately wins him over with the promise of “honor and wealth” (31). While the Good Angel promises him ethereal bliss, the Evil Angel (and, by extension, the devil himself) is able to sway him with non-religious offers of power on Earth. It is therefore apparent that although Faustus’ turn to the devil is marred by religious warnings, he himself views the devil only as a means to an end. It is out of no religious commitment, either positive or negative, that Faustus becomes a necromancer. His intentions are made clear once again in his exchange with the Emperor, a figure of great political and social authority. When the Emperor asks him to use his necromantic powers to accomplish tasks for him, Faustus accepts, saying “I am ready to accomplish your / request, so far forth as by art and / power of my spirit I am able to perform” (71). Faustus’ point here is that his power in necromancy is the end, with the devil serving as the means to provide that end. As long as he can fulfill the Emperor’s wishes, he is not concerned with the origins of his power. This demonstrates that he does not consider his expression of the devil’s power to be imbued with religious meaning, or even laced with the nefarious implications of colluding with the devil. Ultimately, Faustus’ opposite views of religious piety and mundane power, not religious or anti-religious commitments, lead him to seek out the devil.
        The dichotomy of Dr. Faustus — that despite its religious motifs, its main character is not preoccupied with religion — demonstrates the arrogance and naivete of a person who seeks knowledge or authority solely to increase their own power. Faustus, who holds few religious or philosophical convictions, is consistently unsatisfied with what he does know, and his ultimate damnation leaves him with nothing to show for his desperate attempts at knowledge. Without any reason for learning more other than his own ego, Faustus finds that it will never be enough. With a religious or philosophical belief to guide him, it is quite possible that Faustus’ search for knowledge could have been far more positive, as he would have had an external commitment through which his newfound knowledge could be channeled and disseminated. Ultimately, Dr. Faustus is an indictment of those who search for power simply for their own gain, and a warning that to live without any external faith - religious or not - will leave one perpetually unsatisfied. 
________________
In his reputed Problems of Dostoevsky’s Poetics, Mikhail Bakhtin writes that in Dostoevsky, it is as if “the character were not an object of authorial discourse, but rather a fully valid, autonomous carrier of his own individual word” (5). Hence emerged polyphony, Bakhtin’s term describing literature in which the so-called “author” is far from being the only source of authority. Rather, each character operates within a world of their own, one which transcends the author’s own world and view (“Polyphony”). Out of this multiplicity comes Bakhtin’s concept of unfinalizability, which describes literary characters and ideas whose “essential” truths are not, as the name suggests, finalizable. Truth, in Bakhtin’s Dostoevsky, is neither inexorable nor absolute; rather, the polyphonic nature of the text and its characters lead to an ambiguity of truth which reflects their complexity and humanity (“Problems of Dostoevsky's Poetics”). Finally, in what - for Bakhtin - may be most important in Dostoevsky and literature as a whole, is dialogue. For Bakhtin, dialogue is the means through which polyphony is expressed. It is the way in which characters interact with one another — not as isolated individuals, but as dynamic, even autonomous figures. Dialogue operates between characters, but it also operates within characters, creating and expanding upon the polyphony which allows their inner worlds to come to life (“Dialogue [Bakhtin]”). In Bakhtin’s view, Dostoevsky champions these three features, bringing to the forefront a type of literature which “does not fit any of the preconceived frameworks or historico-literary schemes that we usually apply to various species of the European novel” (Bakhtin 7). Dostoevsky’s Crime and Punishment is central in Problems of Dostoevsky’s Poetics, and its main character, Raskolnikov, is a vehicle through which polyphony, unfinalizability, and dialogue come into full view. Throughout the novel, Raskolnikov explores themes of morality and ethics, framed around his struggle to grapple with his having committed a heinous murder. Ultimately, Raskolnikov has no certain morality, for the polyphony and unfinalizability inherent to the text leaves contradiction in place of moral concord. This ambiguity becomes clear through an analysis of his dialogue with various groups, individuals, and himself.
A conflict close to Raskolnikov’s heart is that between his sister, Dunya, and her fiance, Luzhin, who Raskolnikov believes has only proposed to her in order to elevate Luzhin’s own social standing. Raskolnikov also believes strongly that Dunya has only accepted Luzhin’s proposal in order to benefit others, including Raskolnikov himself. When Raskolnikov learns of the engagement for the first time, he thinks, “It’s clear: she [Dunya] wouldn’t sell herself on her own, for her own comfort [...] but she would sell herself for someone else!” (48). Here, Raskolnikov’s first instinct is to recognize the selflessness within his sister’s actions. Regardless of how he personally feels about her choice to accept Luzhin’s engagement, he nonetheless recognizes that she is doing it for the sake of others. This, within Raskolnikov’s own reality, may indicate that he is capable of in some way appreciating the sacrifices other people make for him. This moral awareness, however, is in many ways countered by Raskolnikov’s reaction to such sacrifices. Later in the novel, when Dunya asserts that, while her marriage to Luzhin will help her family, it is not her main motivation, Raskolnikov cries, “‘She’s an arrogant woman! She doesn’t want to admit that she’s doing it to benefit others! Oh, these vile characters! Their love is like hatred [...] Oh, how I [...] hate them all’” (255). While he recognizes that his sister may be acting out of selflessness, he is in this case unable to appreciate the kindness behind that action. On the contrary, he sees the action as a sign of Dunya’s arrogance, and even claims that he hates her. Even as he recognizes selflessness in others, he is not able to translate that into respect or kindness for them. He continues, asserting that regardless of her intentions, she is behaving in a “vile manner” (256). Once again, Raskolnikov chooses not only to jump to the worst possible conclusion, but also to attack Dunya personally on his perception of her character. This contradiction, wherein Raskolnikov is both aware of Dunya’s selflessness and also horrified by what he takes to be her arrogance, is a sign of a schism within Raskolnikov. The contradictions between what he observes and how he reacts are vast, indicating an internal split between his moral compass and his penchant for depravity. It is this divergence which ultimately renders murky any claims about his moral character. 
Made clear in his interactions with his friend Razumikhin is Raskolnikov’s simultaneous recognition of kindness and tendency to attack those who offer it to him. When Raskolnikov falls ill after committing his murders, Razumikhin is one of the main figures among those who attempt to help Raskolnikov recover, even going out of his way to purchase new clothing for the delirious man. After Razumikhin has told Raskolnikov that he has done so, however, Raskolnikov is disgusted, and harshly instructs his friend to leave (144). In this instance, it is once again clear how much of Raskolnikov’s morality is undetermined. Though he listens as Razumikhin details the purchase of the raiment, the saturnine Raskolnikov refuses to respond with gratitude, instead choosing to accost the person who is caring for him. Unable to accept such largesse, Raskolnikov chooses to push away those who offer it to him, as if to eschew vulnerability. Later, after a delirious Raskolnikov has left his room and begun to roam the streets, he runs into Razumikhin, who is concerned and asks Raskolnikov where he has been. Raskolnikov responds, “I was bored to death with all of you and want to be alone’” (184). Even as Razumikhin expresses profound concern for his wellbeing, Raskolnikov finds himself unable to accept his kindness. This indicates his capacity for empathy and gratitude as well as his tendency away from them, and even to attack those who are kind to him. He is cognizant of the kindness Razumikhin is offering him, but refuses it anyway. When Razumikhin continues with his concern, Raskolnikov asks, “‘What’s this desire of yours to do good deeds for those who...who spit on them?’” (185). In this case, Raskolnikov’s self-awareness is in full view. He acknowledges not only that Razumikhin is being kind, but that he himself is unwilling to return the favor with gratitude or kindness. So, although he continues to reject Razumikhin’s kindness, Raskolnikov expresses some guilt, wondering why his friend is willing to go to such lengths only to be met with mordant responses. This empathy, coupled with a refusal to act on it, is highly indicative of the internal moral schism within Raskolnikov. These two worlds, one of morality, and the other of immorality, live simultaneously within him, both appearing and disappearing at different points - often at the same time. 
Raskolnikov’s various interactions with strangers on the streets of St. Petersburg once again demonstrate his moral vacillation. At one point early in the novel, he comes across a young girl whose drunkenness has left her vulnerable to the malintent of another man on the street. So, Raskolnikov takes it upon himself to get in the way of the other man, throwing his body in front of the young girl in order to protect her (51). Here, it is clear how deeply Raskolnikov can care for strangers, particularly those he sees as vulnerable. That he is willing to put his own safety on the line for a person whom he has never met indicates a certain amount of moral responsibility. Other interactions Raskolnikov has with strangers, however, reveal further the polyphonic nature of the novel, wherein characters are in many ways masters of their own, often contradictory, universes. Later, Raskolnikov witnesses a woman’s suicide attempt by drowning, and responds with “indifference and unconcern,” even disgust (188). Though this situation is largely similar to the former - a woman in distress and danger - Raskolnikov responds in a completely opposite manner as before. Instead of reigniting his morality, the suicide attempt doesn’t affect him at all. This shows that rather than being predictable and monotonous, Raskolnikov, continuously contradicts himself, thus rendering any certainty concerning his morality impossible. This ambiguity is proven further when Raskolnikov meets the wife of just-injured Marmeladov. Despite having never met her before, Raskolnikov calls for a doctor, explaining to  Marmeladov’s wife, “Don’t be distressed, I’ll pay. Do you have any water?” (198). In this scenario, again centered on the distress of a female stranger, Raskolnikov, like with the drunken girl, takes it upon himself to be especially helpful to the woman in need. Even though he himself is indigent, he spends his own money and energy to help the bereaved family, once again confirming his sympathy for those in need. In these three scenarios, Raskolnikov is at times deeply sympathetic, while in other cases, he appears to have no care for others at all. It is thus clear just how mutable Raskolnikov’s moral character is.
Demonstrating further Raskolnikov’s moral ambiguity is his inner dialogue, particularly in the context of his murders. Though he initially expresses disgust at the thought of murdering someone (10), just after he has committed the first murder, he feels “a new strength in himself” (85). Here, there are two moral forces at work. On the one hand, Raskolnikov is aware that murder is wrong, and he is even disgusted by the possibility of his committing it. On the other, however, he still does commit the murder, and even feels renewed immediately after. That his feelings and actions contradict one another is a manifestation of the internal schism within his morality. After he has killed the first woman, who was his only intended victim, Raskolnikov sees her sister Lizaveta standing in front of him, horrified by the sight of her murdered sister. Instead of fleeing or letting Lizaveta go, Raskolnikov kills her, too. After he has done so, “Fear was overcoming him more and more, especially after this second, completely unanticipated murder” (88). Here, once again, the contradictions between his actions and his thoughts are clear. Even though he kills Lizaveta, Raskolnikov feels a renewed sense of fear and guilt after he does, indicating that he is still aware that what he is doing is wrong. After escaping from the sisters’ apartment, several of their profitable belongings in hand, Raskolnikov thinks that, “If the caretaker had asked, ‘What do you want?,’ perhaps he would have handed over the axe straight away” (95). Though he has already committed the murders and seemingly escaped without detection, Raskolnikov’s guilt pushes him to want to confess — even if he ultimately does not. Here, as before, Raskolnikov feels a sense of guilt or discomfort with the actions he is going to take, or those he has already taken. In each of these cases, action and thought are misaligned, thereby proving the nuance within Raskolnikov’s morality. 
 In his conclusion to Problems of Dostoevsky’s Poetics, Bakhtin writes that polyphony “makes available those sides of a human being, and above all the thinking human consciousness” (270). Through an analysis of Raskolnikov’s ambiguous character, where he is at once moral and immoral, one finds Bakhtin’s conclusion to ring true. Throughout Crime and Punishment, Dostoevsky’s own perspective, while still present, becomes just one of many voices. This ultimately leads to a far more complex view of the human psyche, most pronounced in the novel’s main character Raskolnikov. From this fact, one could conclude that it is literature, not scientific or academic writing, that can best describe the inner world of a human being. Only in polyphonic literature does the author become level with the characters, thus expanding the possibilities for exploration into human complexity, and, as in the case of Raskolnikov, contradiction. 
________________


In 1923, Vinayak Damodar Savarkar wrote in his Essentials of Hindutva that “Hindutva is not a word but a history” (Savarkar 4). Hindutva, which translates to “Hinduness”, has since become one of the most dominant forces in Indian political and social life, bringing with it millions of supporters and leaving in its wake scars of destruction and hatred. From the last decades of the British Raj, through independence and Partition, through the Cold War and the nuclear armament of both India and Pakistan, and through to the present, Hindutva, the most prevalent strand of Hindu nationalism, has maintained an extraordinary ideological cohesion. At the same time, however, it has also maintained its most extreme ideas, the most inflammatory of which have been the cause of some of the greatest violence the modern subcontinent has seen. Drawing on colonial divisions, fascist theories of race, and a specific brand of Indian religiosity, Hindu nationalism in its contemporary form (i.e. Hindutva) is an extreme and violent racial ideology disguised by remarkably coherent - and at times even attractive - mythology.
The organizational structure of contemporary Hindutva is both vast and informal. Yet, like its ideological underpinnings, it maintains a certain coherence, one that can be described and, at times, measured. The leading wing of this movement is the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), in English the “National Volunteer Association”. Founded in 1925 by Keshav Baliram Hedgewar, the RSS claims that “The Hindu culture is the life-breath of Hindusthan”, and that it is “the duty of every Hindu to do his best to consolidate the Hindu society” (”RSS Vision and Mission”). The RSS is both militant and violent, but its more osten- sibly militant partner is the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), translated to the “Universal Hindu Council“. Perhaps even more notorious than the VHP is its youth wing, the Bajrang Dal, which has been known to operate as a hybrid of a criminal gang and a militant terrorist organization. In addition, the students’ union Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and the workers’ union Bharatiya Kishan Sangh (BKS) add millions more to the ranks of the Hindutva movement. Finally, there is the Bharatiya Janata Party, the BJP, which has led India’s government since 2014 with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at its helm. As of 2019, the BJP also controls India’s parliament and state assemblies, and claims the largest primary member population of any party in the world - 180 million. This confederation of organizations and parties is referred to as the Sangh Parivar, the “RSS family”. Though exact numbers are difficult to come by due to its sheer size, estimates put the RSS’s membership at around 6 million, though, if one is to count the entire Sangh Parivar, formal membership may be closer to 200 million. This count, of course, does not include those with sympathies for the Sangh, nor does it include the wide diasporic support for Hindutva around the world.
The kind of nationalism that Hindutva and the Sangh encompass is just one of several within India, and around the subcontinent. Ashutosh Varshney, a leading expert in Indian politics and ethnic conflict, describes the three dominant brands of Indian nationalism: secular nationalism, separatist nationalism, and Hindu nationalism, which he takes as a reaction against the first two (Varshney 227) . Secular nationalism, championed and enshrined by giants like Mohandas Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru, emerged out of resistance to British rule in India, and has since its inception insisted on a religiously tolerant and heterogeneous national character. (One should note, of course, that this inclusive paradise is by no means always realized by those who support it in theory.) Separatist nationalism, most visible in Jammu and Kashmir but also present in regions like Punjab in the northwest and Assam in the northeast, is distinct in its goals (i.e. separation, rather than unification), but shares similar notions of the nation with the secular nationalists. Hindu nationalism is a different story. Varshney writes that “Hindu nationalism has two simultaneous impulses: a commitment to the territorial integrity of India as well as a political commitment to Hinduism” (Varshney 228). While secular and separatist nationalism claim legitimacy based on their shared territory and culture, Hindu nationalism instead claims territory and religion, creating an entirely different and entirely oppositional model of nationalism.
That Hindutva is reactionary and oppositional is not in itself necessarily discrediting. In fact, many of the claims it and the Sangh Parivar make seem not only coherent but even acceptable and attractive - even to those who it is reacting against. It is this sense of veracity that helps to hide the far more insidious and violent nature of the movement. The RSS, for example, writes on the English version of its website that at the 25th anniversary of Queen Victoria’s coronation, its founder Keshav Baliram Hedgewar “threw away the sweets distributed...He was eight years old at the time” . This sense of disgust at the imperial British surely appeals not only to both secular nationalists and separatists, but also to people around the world who now condemn imperialism and the British Raj. In what proves to be telling for its future mythologizing, however, the RSS’s claim that its founder was politically conscious and anti-imperialist at the young age of 8 seems doubtful at best. On this lengthy webpage where the RSS outlines its origins and motivations, there is even an appeal to Marxist lines of thought: “While the unsympathetic rich try to suck the blood of the poor, the crafty intelligent exploit the gullible.” Even the most radical postcolonial thinkers and leaders might be pleased by the RSS’s acknowledgement that “externally induced impoverishment has been used by the West to make Bharat [India] a debtor country” (”RSS Vision and Mission”) . Even Savarkar himself, whose work today reads not unlike a Nazi race scientist’s, wrote in Essentials of Hindutva that nations are built on shared culture, territory, and language. Though he more often indulges with claims of the homogeneity of the “Hindu race”, Savarkar does still manage to maintain some academic integrity, for his more preposterous statements are accompanied by widely accepted ideas from political theory and anthropology. The occasional validity of claims from organizations and individuals certainly does not outweigh their overarching and dangerous ideas about race, nation, and culture, but it does serve to offer some kind of legitimacy to the message as a whole. If one is not careful, the academic language and references to moderate - even liberal - ideas may make the Hindutva platform appear far less insidious than one might have assumed. Upon closer inspection (and, in the case of Savarkar, not much closer), however, one sees that this moderation is nothing but a mirage.
The doctrines of the RSS, and the Sangh by extension, have three major foundational ideological tenets which place them firmly in the category of “extreme”. The first is a chauvinist and homogenizing nationalism which claims to define and understand the “native character of the people”. India, the Sangh claims,“has been a nation for millennia”, one which has “made phenomenal progress in science, commerce, arts, technology, agriculture and other spheres”. On the one hand, there is a certain amount of truth to the claim of a thousands-year old tradition in the subcontinent. On the other, however, there is the fact that India as a sovereign nation has only existed since 1947, with the colonial beginnings of its national consolidation only coming into their modern character around the founding of the British Raj in 1868. That the RSS should argue for its legitimacy using myths of such a vast and coherent history is perhaps not surprising if one is to adopt a comparison to European fascism (”RSS Vision and Mission”). To this primordial theory of India’s existence is added the RSS’s statement that it has “believed from day one that this country belonged to the Hindus.” Hindus, it says, “have their own ’View of Life’ and a ’Way of Life’“. Though it is acknowledged that sects within Hinduism (religious and otherwise) do exist, the RSS maintains still that “the national identity of the people of this country is essentially Hindu.” Expanding Hindu beyond its religious dimension, the RSS argues that Hindus are defined by their willingness to “accept and respect Bharat’s history, nurture the country through their social values and make sacrifices to protect these value systems” (”RSS FAQ”). Thus, to be Hindu is to be something more than a constituent of a specific faith; it is instead an intrinsic feature of one’s character, one that makes one worthy of membership in the great, supposedly thousands-year-old, tradition of India. When asked whether Christians and Muslims can participate, the RSS responds by saying “Yes, definitely, if they agree with the above viewpoint” (”RSS FAQ”). That is, Christians and Muslims are welcome, as long as they accept and actively serve the fundamental supremacy of Hinduism and Hindus alike. Further, though the RSS does claim that Hinduism is not merely a religious faith but a cultural and national identity, at no point do they refer to Christians or Muslims as Hindus. The supposedly inclusive label of “Hindu” appears inclusive only in theory, for in application, it remains strictly applied to the “true Indians”: members of the Hindu faith. In the Sangh Parivar’s formulation, India is a country for and by Hindus. Any diversion from the Hindu “way of life” is also a diversion from India itself.
The dangerous and exclusive nature of this viewpoint is materialized by the second tenet of Hindutva’s extremism: a militaristic paternalism which argues for the realignment of Indian society towards a specific, unitary goal of national ascendance. The everyday manifestation of the RSS and its partner organizations comes in the form of the Shakha, translated to “branch”. Shakhas, of which there are over 60 thousand, meet frequently in every major city and town in India, creating a sense of community in which RSS members meet one another, forge relationships, and plan for their attempts at rejuvenating the nation in the vision of Hindutva. At Shakhas, members - often wearing uniforms - participate in highly coordinated rituals, including celebrations of the saffron flag, the symbol of the Sangh, dances, chants, and marches. The militaristic dimensions are clear from this practice alone, where young boys and men participate in ritualistic performances designed to show physical strength and cultural belonging. (The reference to “boys and men” is not simply for convenience’s sake. It is made clear on the RSS’s website that “due to practical limitations”, only Hindu males may be members. Perhaps these “practical limitations” include the possibility of a female revolt against the grotesque and cruel sexual practices which permeate the movement). But the function of the Shakhas goes beyond a mere physical show. A Shakha, the RSS explains, is “the most effective and time-tested instrument of the moulding of men on patriotic lines - outreaching by far its physical dimensions” (”RSS Vision and Mission”). “RSS workers at the Shakha pledge to remain lifelong members of the Sangh, to work for it without hesitation, and to keep its defects in confidence” (Chaturvedi 346). This blind and uncritical militarism that arises out of the Shakhas is no accident. In its officially stated Mission, the RSS argues that “Strength...comes only through organization,” that it is “the duty of every Hindu to do his best to consolidate the Hindu society,” and that “the Sangh is just carrying out this supreme task”. Ultimately, they say, “the entire society should be in such a vigilant and organized condition that no one would care to cast an evil eye on any of our points of honor” (”RSS Vision and Mission”). Almost as if preparing for a holy war, the RSS and its compatriots are determined to realize their ideas of a homogenized, Hindu India through the indoctrination of young men into its folds.
But how, ultimately, does the Sangh justify its positions? Perhaps the answer lies in the third tenet of its extremism: a pseudoscientific theory of race and reproduction which seems to suggest not only the fortitude but the biological inevitability of its cause. In the mold of his contemporaries in the 1920s - namely, Nazis and eugenicists - Savarkar, the figurehead and founder of Hindutva, wrote that Hindus are connected to India ”because they are united not only by the love they bear to a common motherland but also by the bonds of a common blood. They are not only a nation but a race-jati,“ where jati refers to “a brotherhood, a race determined by a common origin” (Savarkar 84-85). Not only does Savarkar insist that “Hindu” is a racial category, he also claims that the Hindu race is the superior race, and thus best positioned for leadership in India. While Muslims and Christians are “are a religious unit, yet neither a racial or national one...we Hindus, if possible, are all the three put together” (Savarkar 134). The ideal conditions for a nation, Savarkar asserts, are a people “the scenes of whose history are also the scenes of their mythology. The Hindus are about the only people who are blessed with these ideal conditions that are at the same time incentive to national solidarity, cohesion and greatness” (Savarkar 136). Savarkar’s argument, then, is one of racial supremacy. From this quasi-biological argument one can draw a line to the more contemporary “dark sexual obsession about allegedly ultra-virile Muslim male bodies and overfertile Muslim female ones, that inspire and sustain the figures of paranoia and revenge” (T. Sarkar 2874). In Savarkar’s racial formulation, there is a kind of inevitability to Hindutva. If, after all, the Hindus are the natural populace of the Indian subcontinent, and if nature is to be taken seriously at all, he may find it logical to conclude that it it only natural for India itself to be a state for and by Hindus. With a combination of primordial nationalism, militaristic formations, and faulty race science, members of Hindutva are able to argue not only that their claim to a Hindu India is valid, but that it is in fact the only suitable India there can be. Perhaps unsurprisingly, this absolutism lends easily - and tragically - to violence.
It is estimated that in the chaos and violence of the Partition of India in 1947, up to 2 million were killed and up to 20 million displaced. Much of this devastation can be attributed to sectarian and communalist violence between Muslims, Hindus, and other religious sects. Since then, such violence has not gone away, and in fact it has become almost commonplace in the areas of India most affected by religious divisions. And, while the death count is staggering, what is perhaps most shocking is the cruelty that has been exhibited by perpetrators, most egregiously against women and children. To take an example, in 2002, in the western state of Gujarat, riots broke out in response to the burning of a train which killed 59 Hindu pilgrims. (In the case of the burning, courts found 31 Muslims guilty, but conclusive evidence has yet to be uncovered.) Gujarat, which was at that time under then Chief Minister Narendra Minister, saw a death toll that may exceed 2,000, alongside thousands more injured and displaced. Modi has been criticized for his passivity, even support, in regards to the riots, but has never taken responsibility nor been served justice. Spurred further on by long-extant anger over animal sacrifice and vegetarianism, which “imply a dietary stigma attached to Muslims” (Ghassem-Fachandi 17), socio-economic conflict, and, of course, generalized anger over the presence of Muslims in what they perceived to be an Indian nation, Hindu nationalists rampaged  through the streets, killing and raping as they went. Further still, stereotypes about the dangers of male Muslim sexuality inflamed tensions even more, for the Hindu nationalist cause is one of intense chauvinism and misogyny. Exaggerated grievances against past Muslim violence - especially against Hindu women - led to even further rage, which translated ultimately to sadistic violence.
Of particular interest is the way in which women’s bodies have become a kind of front on the battle for Hindu supremacy in India. Masculine Hindu nationalists have long resented the supposedly superior sexuality of its Muslim neighbors, particularly because, as with other racial-religious extremist groups, the fear of being out-populated is palpable. In the case of Hindu nationalists, there is a long-standing myth of the “vigorously self-multiplying Muslims”, who pose an existential threat to the “comparatively less potent Hindu maleness [and] infertile Hindu femaleness” (T. Sarkar 2875). Thus, rapes and attacks on reproductive organs are commonplace. Victim and witness testimonies from the Gujarat riots are particularly powerful:
”My daughter was like a flower, still to experience life...The monsters tore my beloved daughter to pieces...the mob was saying, cut them to pieces, leave no evidence...I saw fires being lit.”
“Kausar Bano, a young girl from Naroda Patiya, was several months pregnant. Several eyewit- nesses testified that she was raped, tortured, her womb was slit open with a sword to disgorge the foetus which was then hacked to pieces and roasted alive with the mother”
The causes of such violence against young women, children, and infants are difficult to pin down. Claudia Card, scholar of women’s studies at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, posits that mass rape in war “domesticates not only the women survivors who were its immediate victims but also the men socially connected to them, and men who were socially connected to those who did not survive” (Card 7). Paired with the chauvinism and insecure masculinity that characterizes so much fear and anger among Hindutva’s foot-soldiers, this seems to be part of the equation. That rape serves so many purposes - literal and symbolic - makes it deeply powerful for Hindu nationalists. The liberation of women, in Hinduism and Islam, as well as in Indian society as a whole, is doubtless key in any movement which might attempt to counter Hindutva and the terroristic violence endemic to it.
The parallels between Hindutva and other tyrannical movements which emerged out of the 20th century are clear. With Nazi race scientists and American eugenicists, Hindutva and Savarkar share deeply problem- atic ideas of race and its political implications. With Stalinism and Soviet-style authoritarian communism, it shares the conceptualization of the state as a vehicle through which the goal of consolidation into mass society must be achieved. With every other extremist group and movement, religious or not, it shares pro- found mythologizing, fear of the “Other”, and radical exclusion of those who it refuses to accommodate. However, it is also situated within a specifically Indian context, one that has led to unique, and occasionally absurd, results. The historical dominance of Nehruvian secular nationalism has inflamed anger and resent- ment among Hindus who feel that they are being overlooked in favor of religious tolerance. British colonial divide-and-conquer strategies have left scars of sectarianism deep within the flesh of Indian social and po- litical life. Socio-economic underdevelopment and inadequate education (especially for girls and women) often means that ordinary people are left with little upward mobility and, subsequently, plenty of anger to be dished out to those one perceives as the enemy (i.e. Muslims). Finally, leaders who not only permit but actively condone and participate in Hindu nationalism continue to empower individuals and groups who wish to cause harm. Today, there is no greater threat to the elementary principles of India than Hindu nationalism. More important than that, however, is the simple fact that Hindutva and its constituent parts have left families and communities terrorized, traumatized, and decimated. An India whose constitution claims to secure “the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the Nation” cannot (and must not) allow a movement like Hindutva to corrupt and disintegrate those values upon which it was founded.
________________
        Buddhism and Islam occupy very different roles in the Western psyche. Buddhism, on the one hand, is considered transcendentally peaceful, almost utopian in its outlook. On the other, there is Islam, which, particularly in light of the rise of Islamic terrorism over the course of the late 20th and early 21st centuries, tends to be the object of existential fear of violence, war, and terror. With these divergent contemporary narratives, the historical and spiritual forces behind each faith can become distorted, hiding the similarities that lie behind their political manifestations today. To take a broader look, one which encompasses both the historical context and the religious nature of each tradition, is to uncover these common factors, all of which aid in answering the far more universal question of what makes a religion, and to what extent a definition of religion, if one even exists, can be changed without its purpose being betrayed. Through a comparative analysis of Buddhism and Islam, we can better conceptualize what it means to be religious, and how religion serves humanity, believers and non-believers alike. 
        The most obvious, and perhaps most significant, distinction between Buddhism and Islam seems to be in their respective theologies. Islam’s theological conception is relatively straightforward. The 255th verse of the second surah of the Quran (Al-Baqarah), reads, “Allah — there is no deity except Him, the Ever-Living, the Sustainer of [all] existence” (“Surah Al-Baqarah”). Islam, which rejects the idea of holy incarnations, such as those described in the Holy Trinity of Christianity, is, to its core, a monotheistic tradition. Allah is, in the Islamic view, the only source of divine truth, and it is through the prophets, the last of whom was Muhammad, that this divine messaging is disseminated on the earthly plane (“Islamic Beliefs”). To determine the Buddhist theology is a far less clear task. Buddhism is not a theistic faith; that is, its belief structure and spirituality do not rely on the existence of a god. In the Buddhist spiritual and intellectual tradition, meaning is largely derived from the teachings of the Buddha — Sanskrit for “the enlightened one” — and their philosophical underpinnings. Among the most significant of Buddha’s teachings are the Four Noble Truths: Dukkha (suffering is everywhere in the mundane), samudaya (suffering originates from desire), nirodha (suffering can be relieved by letting go of desire), and magga (the eightfold is a guide to the end of suffering) (Anderson). While the Buddha himself is certainly an important figure, both spiritually and culturally, it is his teachings, not his very existence, that have become central to the collection of beliefs that constitute Buddhism. 
In this fact, there seems to be a very obvious divergence between Islam and Buddhism. While the Islamic faith is heavily reliant on Allah, the unitary God, Buddhism is notably non-theistic, reliant instead on the philosophical and spiritual conclusions of the Buddha and his many disciples. While this difference does prove significant in terms of the religious practices and structures that make up each tradition, it can certainly be argued that the functions of each foundation (Allah and the teachings of Buddha) are actually very similar. In each faith, there are certain central tenants which provide a philosophical and metaphysical outline on which religious and cultural practices and beliefs can be constructed and justified. This fact demonstrates that despite their specific and broad differences, Islam and Buddhism both serve to create a common understanding of the way the world works, and to identify within that knowledge a higher purpose: the service of an almighty God, and an escape from earthly suffering, respectively. 
        As religious and philosophical traditions with origins across the Asian continent, Buddhism and Islam have had profound influence on civilizations around the world. Islam, the world’s second largest religion with nearly 2 billion followers, today is a major political, judicial, economic, social force which rests at the center of many contemporary debates on the state, migration, war, and politics. (Hackett and McClendon). Buddhism, itself with over 500 million adherents, has been foundational in the construction and maintenance of societies, particularly those in East and Southeast Asia, and continues to occupy a significant role in the philosophical and political underpinnings of morality and knowledge, among Buddhists and non-Buddhists alike (Reynolds). Though the two traditions are distinct in countless ways, from their meditative practices to their views on governance, they share certain very significant traits — chief among them the conceptualization and organization of a transcendent philosophy which guides their followers around a common purpose. It is this conclusion, that which emphasizes the functional similarities between traditions, that may provide insight into what it is that religion can uniquely provide, and, ultimately, what exactly it means for a tradition to be defined as religious. 
________________
The state is a living, breathing thing. Just as a tree could not exist without its roots, neither could a state exist without the human beings that constitute it. Statecraft is therefore a primarily humanist endeavor, one which requires paramount focus on human experience and its conditions. These considerations emerge in various forms throughout classical thought, more often than not in the interest of maintaining the myth of a primordial, hierarchical order, both of nature and of human beings. The task is thus to draw on the remarkable contributions of classical thinkers and works without falling prey to their profoundly flawed assumptions about what is and what ought to be. What emerges is a model of the state as an ecosystem, a collection of parts whose interactions together create the superstructure, that thing which can be called a ”state.”
But what is the goal of a state? What is a state? Is it, as Cicero posits, nothing but ”a community of rights?” (Cicero, Republic 1.32). Or is it something more extensive than that, something which exists not only as a guarantor of public rights but also as an entity within the private lives of individuals and communities? An answer seems to lie, at least partially, in the model of an ecosystem. In an ecosystem, the goal, if one can call it that, is balance. On one hand, every single organism strives for survival. Through various methods of consumption, reproduction, and mobility, each individual organism maintains its hold on life. On the other hand, each organism interacts - directly or indirectly - with every other organism and all abiotic factors, and the macroscopic processes of natural selection and evolution create a dynamic and adaptable superstructure. This, it may be proposed, can provide answers to the basic questions of the state. The state ought to operate within this twofold structure as well: first by enabling each individual to live and thrive, and second by forming a greater community through which interactions between individuals within and outside of the state are mediated.
Perhaps the greatest drawback of such a model is the apparent neutrality of the natural world. We do not assume that plants, out of some profound moral obligation, valiantly sacrifice their berries so that a suffering bear might live a bit longer. We do not see the blossoming of a tree in the Spring as a sign of its desire to reach enlightenment through personal enrichment. No, these are simply natural processes which serve to maintain the balance of things within an ecosystem - local and global. Human civilization is different. We do assume an intentionality behind human actions, a moral code behind human decisions, a pattern of desires - conscious and subconscious - behind human thoughts. The model of the ideal state as an ecosystem must therefore be adapted to account for this discrepancy. This, then, is the next task in establishing an ideal state.
What are those uniquely human characteristics which ought to form the state beyond a simple ecological balance? Here classical assumptions must be interrogated and problematized. That is not to say that every classical work was unambiguously wrong about humanity; certainly not. Plato, for example, seems to recognize a particular feature of human civilization in his Republic, stating that “’Too much freedom seems to change into nothing but too much slavery, both for private man and the city”’ (Plato, Republic 564a). Throughout history, we have seen this sentiment come to fruition repeatedly as those who claim to be free are in fact left vulnerable to what Cicero referred to as “the bad passions of some men”; that is, tyranny, cruelty, and perhaps even evil (Cicero 1.26). Aristotle, for his part, noted that revolution is caused by “the desire of equality, when men that think they are equal to others who have more than themselves; or, again, the desire of inequality and superiority, when conceiving themselves to be superior they think that they have not more but the same or less than their inferiors; pretensions which may and may not be just” (Aristotle, Politics 5.2). Here, Aristotle also seems to be correct about the nature of change in human civilization. He even seems to predict the very modern idea that the oppressed revolt for equal rights, and the oppressors suppress for unequal rights. Most importantly, all three men note that stability and prosperity are not inevitable, and that they can easily be eroded by forces internal and external. Clearly, they all noticed human patterns throughout history and their lives and attempted to reconcile those patterns with their philosophies.
In these attempts, however, all three men made grave mistakes, which have profound import as we work to uncover what it is that an “ideal state” embodies. Aristotle, drawing heavily on his teacher Plato, makes perhaps the most egregious of these mistakes. In his Politics, he asks the question of whether slavery is a violation of nature. His answer is that it is not, and that in fact “There is no difficulty in answering this question” in such a way (Aristotle 1.5). He continues, stating that it is both necessary and appropriate for slavery to exist, for “from the hour of their birth, some are marked out for subjection, others for rule” (Aristotle 1.5). The error here is clear. In any modern conception of natural rights, such a claim that some are naturally bound to slavery is simply preposterous. Here lies one of the greatest advantages of the ecosystem model: liberty. In nature, there is no organism whose existence is merely for the benefit of another organism. If there were, that organism would have no way of surviving, no opportunity for evolution or adaptation that would prolong its existence beyond a single generation. If we take Aristotle’s claim seriously, we see that the ecosystem model of a state completely refutes it. If, as in an ecosystem, no individual person exists merely for the enrichment of another individual, then there can be no claim that a slavery-based system is somehow natural. The dynamic balance of the state simply cannot be maintained if such an inhuman imbalance is baked into it. This is not even to mention that Aristotle, great disciple of Plato, seems in his own statement of inevitable slavery to come into conflict with his teacher’s claim that revolution is caused everywhere by inequality. For Aristotle, a conservative in favor of the maintenance of order, it would seem that a system of slavery - one defined by inequality - would inspire revolutionary passions in its victims, who then would disrupt the order that Aristotle prizes so highly. This is not merely speculation; history shows that every system of slavery has a limited life span, after which revolution and “disorder” replace it, with another form of slavery, a promise of liberty, or both. The idea that some men are bound by birth to slavery, however, does not need such an argument to be rejected. For that simple logic should suffice.
Though not always as obvious as in Aristotle’s case, Cicero too holds many mistaken assumptions. His initial claim seems to be true: that humans, as individuals, cannot be equal in every single way. His assumptions, however, lead his conclusions astray. He states that because equality by birth is impossible, the state should instead focus on maintaining “an equality of rights [...] among those who are citizens of the same republic” (Cicero 1.32). There is certainly an element of truth here. The state in its ideal form must prioritize the equal political and civil rights of each of its constituents, for in a group of individuals which are inherently inequal (in the most literal sense of the word), it is true that granting equal rights goes a long way when it comes to remedying injustice. Cicero’s claim does, however, warrant the question of why it is that the state ought to neglect the issue of unequal fortune at birth. Is the state merely unequipped to deal with this issue? Is it not an issue at all? If it isn’t, why are we concerned with ensuring rights at any level? Does unequal fortune not mean that certain “equal” rights will still be unequal in practice? Perhaps the state really is unequipped to remedy unequal fortunes, but it does not seem that it must be. In fact, if we are in the business of formulating an ideal state, then there is absolutely no reason we should stop only at equal civil rights. This is especially true because even apparently equal civil rights in theory are not guarantors of equal civil rights in practice. Those born disenfranchised - by class, race, ability, or some other factor - often cannot take advantage of the civil rights they hold due to their disenfranchisement. An individual born into a poor family may on paper have a right to an education, but in reality be restricted in their options due to their circumstances. An individual who fears racist violence may choose not to enter certain spaces that they are legally allowed to enter, but realistically excluded from. A disabled individual might not have the access to the types of work that they are technically entitled to. It would seem that even equal civil rights cannot break down social and institutional barriers which keep in place the oppressed-oppressor dichotomy. Logically, then, we should conclude that the state is also responsible for working for more a more just distribution of wealth and power. It is simply not enough for the state to set aside such just conditions in the interest of gaining equal rights under law.
Here we should return to the ecosystem model of an ideal state. Having established that systems defined by their inequality and cruelty are both wrong and impractical, that there is no guarantee of human flourish- ing even in a stable society, and that civil rights can only be truly enjoyed by those living in a just system, we might be able to draw some conclusions as to how to combine a moral and humanistic perspective with the neutral balance of an ecosystem. From there emerges one final layer: how exactly such a state might be formed. If a state is made up of individual humans in the same way that an ecosystem is made up of indi- vidual organisms, then we might assume that ideal ecological conditions might be projected productively to create ideal socio-political conditions, and therefore an ideal state. This state, therefore, would be concerned first and foremost with the achievement of a balance which provides each of its members the opportunity to flourish individually, and to contribute to a collective thriving which then serves the individuals just the same. Here the idea of a positive feedback loop is scalable from the study of ecosystems to the work of statecraft. In the ideal state, this positive feedback loop must always be maintained so that the appropriate balance between the individual and the collective, the revolutionary and the conservative, can be reached.
In practical terms, this state seems best suited to the general sentiment of Cicero, who argued for a mixture of forms of governance to maximize on the advantages of each while downplaying their disadvantages. He notes that if the aforementioned “bad passions of some men” can be avoided, then under monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy, “one may see that a steady might be preserved” (Cicero 66). Though the exact combination is yet to be seen, this method of fusion certainly appears promising. In an ideal state, there would be a balance between those who hold some form of power, the masses as a whole, and even those outside of the formal state infrastructure (i.e. visitors, refugees, and those living in other states). Perhaps ideally all forms of hierarchy must be abolished, for there is a great contradiction between a claim of equality and the existence of hierarchy in any area of society. But this seems ludicrous, for in every human civilization we know anything about there has developed some way of dividing individuals and groups. This holds true in ecosystems, where different organisms and species serve different purposes and end up on different “levels” of the cycle of production and consumption. What is key, however, is that those structures which we might call “hierarchy” in nature are not the same as those we associate with the word “hierarchy” when it comes to human society. Hierarchies of class, race, ability, gender, etc. are often created by those who hold power, generally in the interest of maintaining that power. These hierarchies prevent those kept at the bottom from flourishing to their fullest potential, and it can be argued that they even keep those at the top from realizing their true human potential for empathy, connection, and relationships. Thus, it is the task of the ideal state to erode artificial hierarchies in favor of a system in which specialization and differentiation are possible, but not mandated. All people regardless of status at birth ought to have the same opportunities - formal and informal - to reach their fullest potential as individuals and members of the collective. Perhaps a system in which different forms of power coexist and play off of one another, as described in Cicero, is best equipped for this task.
But that is only one half of the task, perhaps even less. As has already been established, the state should be responsible for establishing more than mere formal rights. It also ought to be an active player in the push for justice of fortune, where artificial hierarchies are not allowed to be maintained arbitrarily by a simple fact of birth. This requires both a political solution and a social one. The political solution seems to lie both in the establishment of equal rights under the law and in programs of material redistribution that even the playing field, so to speak. The social solution, however, is more complicated. In a world permeated by hierarchy and artificial power crafted through oppression, there is a great deal of work to be done to achieve some level of justice. One might propose education as a major vehicle through which this work can be done. All members of society, especially young people, should receive free, cohesive, critical education which pushes them towards the ecological ideal of individual drive balanced with collective responsibility. They should be given the tools to think about the world around them, to comprehend it, and to change it. The state, after all, is made up of humans, so those humans should be active participants in its formation, evolution, and prosperity. An educated populace has the potential to flourish on both individual and collective levels, and it therefore seems that the first step towards the social conditions in which the ideal state can be established is education.
In formulating the so-called ideal state, it seems that the real task is not statecraft but a refocusing of priorities away from the nebulous concept of power and towards the human sphere. For what is the purpose of power if not to serve human beings? Some of the greatest thinkers of the classical era - Plato, Aristotle, and Cicero - were themselves engaged to a certain extent in this task, though their flawed assumptions about the nature of man often held them back from realizing it. Learning from them and from the subsequent 2,000+ years of history, we may be in a better position to work towards creating an ideal state than they were. By drawing on the lessons of the ecosystem and the dynamic balance it strikes between the individual and the group, between life and death, between the microscopic and the macroscopic, there may be some clues as to how we might best work towards such a lofty goal. By establishing equal rights under law and justice in practice, by encouraging a productive and humanistic duality of individualism and collectivism, by equipping each person with the ability to question the world they exist within, a state would be set on the right path towards the ultimate goal: the realization of a world in which all people and all groups could reach their fullest potential, enjoy the greatest happiness, and not only maintain but improve the human condition for themselves and all generations that might follow them.
________________
Truman Capote’s In Cold Blood is an account of the 1959 murders of the Clutter family and their aftermath. The murderers, Dick Hickock and Perry Smith, take center stage in the book as Capote tells the story of their lives in relation to their crimes, the ensuing trial, and punishment. In researching the circumstances of and reactions to the murders, Capote formed a personal connection to both murderers, especially to Perry. This fact has created a discourse regarding the propriety of In Cold Blood as a work of nonfiction, specifically through the assertion that the author’s biases and personal relationships undermine the book’s accuracy and thus render it undeserving of being labeled ‘nonfiction’. It is true that Capote forged personal connections, even friendships, with Dick and Perry. It is also true that he did not have all the information available due to the devious nature of the crimes. Further, Capote did, in fact, manufacture dialogue and actions from periods of time about which he had no way of knowing details. Ultimately, despite reservations some may have about its merits, Truman Capote’s In Cold Blood should be deemed nonfiction because it does not fabricate truths, and any authorial biases it may include are outweighed by the presence of all the available facts. 
Because Capote chose to tell the dynamic story of the murders rather than simply stating a timeline of events, it is entirely rational that he would have made educated inferences regarding happenings in areas where details are sparse. In Cold Blood is written about an event with limited available information, and there is no way of knowing exactly what was said between Dick and Perry before or after they carried out the murders. So, to fill in these gaps and create a more coherent picture of the events for his audience, Capote uses literary devices like dialogue and irony, each based on the available facts, 
Dick and Perry, having fled from the murder scene to escape capture, have a conversation about the likelihood of being pursued and jailed by investigators. Though Capote was not present during this discussion, he depicts Dick as saying about the investigators, “‘Look. If those cowboys could make the slightest connection, we’d have heard the sound of hoofs a hundred miles off’” (90). At this point in the book, unbeknownst to the murderers, the authorities have in fact begun to connect the evidence to them. This is a fact already revealed to readers by means of a report by The Kansas City Star that there was either “a killer or killers” responsible for the attacks, and that they “acted without a motive,” a description consistent with Dick and Perry’s situation (89). By stating that the murders had no apparent motive, the report suggests that the murderers were not connected to the Clutters directly, which is again true for both Dick and Perry. In Dick’s claim that he and Perry escaped the authorities successfully, then, is an instance of dramatic irony that Capote has created in order to enhance the readers’ understanding of the context of these true events. The facts of the situation are maintained, only elaborated upon with inferred dialogue.
It is an undisputed fact that Capote was not present when Dick and Perry were reflecting on the possibilities of being caught by the authorities. However, he was aware of the events following and was therefore able to create an educated approximation of what was said. Coupled with the fact that the reader knows that the investigation was beginning to be effective, the creation of dialogue is a storytelling mechanism used not to falsify the truth, but to expand upon it with dramatic irony. 
To provide insight into Dick and Perry’s actions and the events leading to the murders, Capote chose to utilize literary devices as a tool for storytelling. Another instance of this choice is the description of Perry’s reflections on the murders: “Why go on talking about it? But he could not always stop himself. Spells of helplessness occurred, moments when he ‘remembered things’ - blue light exploding in a black room, the glass eyes of a big toy bear” (110). Only Perry really knows what this experience was like, but it plays an important role in the development of his character and his awareness of his crimes. Thus, to enhance the reader’s understanding of the murders and their perpetrators, Capote takes it upon himself to fill in the details that are unknown. This does not destroy In Cold Blood’s factual value; it provides observers with information from which more complete factual assessments can be made. Without Capote’s own inferences regarding events and dialogue, the story of the murders would be difficult, if not impossible, to understand completely. Because Capote uses literary devices to fill in gaps of information while still maintaining the integrity of fact, In Cold Blood is worthy of being called nonfiction. 
The argument that In Cold Blood cannot be considered nonfiction is often based on the assertion that Capote too heavily favors Perry for the work to maintain its accuracy. This assertion is undermined most notably by the fact that Capote consistently describes Perry and his actions as disturbing and unsettling. For example, Perry is described as having fits of “extreme” and uncontrollable rage that often lead him to violence (108). He is also characterized as  “compulsively superstitious” and therefore unable to form genuine human connections (42). The use of such pejorative adjectives suggests that Perry is fundamentally unlikable, untrustworthy, and inhuman. Further, Perry’s sister states that she is “afraid of him” because of his criminal history and his tendency towards violence (181). The fact that even a family member doesn’t trust Perry clearly demonstrates his unlikable character. It is invalid to claim that In Cold Blood is not nonfiction due to its bias in favor of Perry; in reality, the work does not shy away from demonstrating Perry’s cruel and malicious nature. 
Not only is Capote frank about Perry’s flaws, but his characterization of all figures is also both accurate and, in the case of Dick and Perry, unflinchingly descriptive. The reader is free to come to their own conclusions about the murders because Capote does, in fact, provide evidence proving Dick and Perry’s guilt and the extent to which their backgrounds inform appropriate punishment. Likewise, the Clutters are shown to be model citizens in their community. This leaves ample space for a reader to come to an independent conclusion, despite any personal biases Capote may have. 
Early in the book, Capote writes that Mr. Clutter “was known for his equanimity, his charitableness, and the fact that he paid good wages and distributed frequent bonuses” (10). With the inclusion of the fact that the head of the Clutter family was a positive figure in his community comes the ability for the reader to feel more empathy for that family. The Clutters are characterized as benevolent, making their murders even more ruthless. A member of the Clutters’ community is quoted as saying, “‘But who hated the Clutters? I never heard a word against them; they were about as popular as a family can be, and if something like this could happen to them, then who’s safe, I ask you?’” (70). This is the view of somebody who knew the Clutters personally, and who therefore has a more complete impression of them than Capote, who did not know them when they were alive. Nowhere in the quote does the author insert his own opinions or biases regarding the victims or the perpetrators. The reader is given the liberty to form a positive impression of the Clutters from concrete evidence, regardless of any biases that may be present in Capote’s other portrayals. Negative sentiments regarding the Clutters or their reputation are not expressed in Capote’s depictions. Any assertion that the work creates a biased narrative is undermined by the fact that Capote does not depict the Clutters as anything but positive and likable. This only further substantiates the facts of Dick and Perry’s guilt and cruelty. 
As well as portraying the Clutters in a positive light, Capote depicts Dick and Perry as being unquestionably nefarious, even evil. Dick is described as having “a venomous, sickly-blue squint that although it was involuntarily acquired, seemed nevertheless to warn of bitter sediment at the bottom of his nature” (31). He is characterized as a cold-hearted criminal without empathy or kindness. In reference to the Clutters’ house where they were murdered, Perry is quoted as saying, “‘I wish the hell my sister had been in that house’” (143). Perry, like Dick, is shown to have cruel tendencies. The characters of each criminal are marred by pervasive wickedness and malice. The facts of Dick and Perry’s evil are not hidden from view, just as the absolute nobility of the Clutters is made apparent. It is therefore logical to conclude that although Capote may insert his own views into his work, he does not disregard damning evidence that can easily justify hatred of Dick and Perry. Thus, the book is still nonfiction, as it remains within the bounds of fact, even when authorial analysis is inserted. 
During a lengthy description of Perry’s childhood, Capote inserts an anecdote from Perry himself, that he at one point during a conflict with his estranged father, “couldn’t control [his hands]. They wanted to choke him to death” (136). Here, Perry is characterized as impulsive, unpredictably incendiary, and violent. This is very much congruent with the fact that Perry was a ruthless murderer. 
These overtly negative descriptions of Dick and Perry prove that there is no attempt by Capote to falsify the facts of their actions. By portraying the Clutters entirely positively, Capote further makes it clear that he did not work to alleviate the murderers of the atrocious nature of their actions. It is thus entirely logical to come to the conclusion that Capote’s treatment of all involved figures was done with facts in mind; personal biases were not instrumental in determining characterization. Thus, In Cold Blood maintains its validity in being labeled nonfiction.
Finally, In Cold Blood’s legitimacy as a work of nonfiction is upheld because it is the story of Dick and Perry, not the Clutters, so Capote focuses on the murderers instead of the victims. Thus, the absence of encomiums to the Clutters is not a way of avoiding the tragic reality of their murders. The fact that Dick and Perry are cruel and ruthless does not take away from the fact that In Cold Blood is about them, and therefore follows them closer than their victims. 
The consequences of Dick and Perry’s crimes are introduced very early into the book, with the following quote: “The townspeople... found fantasy re-creating [the murders] over and again - those somber explosions that stimulated fires of mistrust in the glare of which many old neighbors viewed each other strangely, and as strangers” (5). Again in cooperation with narrative style, Capote introduces the role of Dick and Perry, his main subjects, early in the book. This is an indication that Dick and Perry will play a major, if not central, role in the story Capote is attempting to tell. This story is not false, it is just not that of the Clutters. 
A climactic point in the book comes with the jury’s announcement that for Dick and Perry’s murders of the Clutters, “‘the punishment is death’” (307). This moment decides the future of the main figures in Capote’s story and is therefore presented as particularly important. In including the drama of the murderers’ trial and sentencing, Capote is not ignoring the horrors of the crimes they committed. Instead, he is beginning to bring the story he has been telling to a close by revealing the final verdict in the trial.
Just as Capote begins his book by introducing Dick and Perry, he ends it with their executions. Dewey, a main investigator in the murder case, is described as he watches the hangings take place. Dick is killed first, and “Dewey shuts his eyes, [keeping] them shut until he hears the thud-snap that announces a rope-broken neck.” Then, Perry is hanged, and “when Dewey now opens his eyes, that is what he sees: [Perry’s] childish feet, tilted, dangling” (340). The conclusion of the book is also the conclusion of Dick and Perry’s lives, showing Capote’s intention to tell their stories from, quite literally, the start until the end. Capote wrote not just about the gruesome murders, but about those who carried them out. This is not falsification, but a truth that might otherwise be considered worthless. 
Truman Capote’s In Cold Blood is worthy of being called nonfiction because it maintains its factual integrity while adopting literary devices to describe true events. At no point does Capote eschew mentioning a fact that will criminalize his main subjects, Dick and Perry. Instead, he tells their stories without denying the depravity of their crimes, adding dimension to a reader’s comprehension of the murders and their aftermath. 
________________
Paul Rusesbagina’s An Ordinary Man is an account of his experiences sheltering Tutsis in his hotel during the Rwandan Genocide of 1994. Throughout the book, Rusesabagina describes the ways he used words to fight for his guests’ safety, and on many occasions, he offers invaluable insight into the nature of human interaction. Notably, he explains his observation that no individual is entirely bad or entirely good. Further, he notes that recognizing this fact in an adversary allows one to have a far more productive interaction with them. With this in mind, readers can learn to look for discontinuities in those they disagree with, because these nuances are where cooperation happens, even between the worst of enemies. 
As Rusesabagina details his young life, he explains the Rwandan tradition of sharing a banana beer with someone you disagree with. He states that even if one is fundamentally opposed to someone else’s actions, sharing a drink and conversation with them allows for a better understanding of their intentions; to acknowledge their humanity as you work towards a solution is always far more productive. Here, Rusesabagina asserts an idea that is fundamental throughout his story, that every person is capable of empathy. He understands that even if he cannot agree with somebody’s actions, that person is still human, and that no human is entirely malicious or benevolent. 
As an adult, Rusesabagina goes into further detail about this feature of humanity. At a point when he is worried that his hotel may be invaded, and that his guests will be killed, Rusesabagina, in hopes ot stopping the attack, sits down with one of the leading generals of the genocide. Ultimately, he is able to prevent the assault from happening, largely because he appeals to the general’s emotional desires for pride and valor. Rather than being defensive, Rusesabagina instead assumes that the general is not entirely evil, and that this nuance can be exploited to save lives. Along with this assumption is the belief that everybody is capable of compromise, even if they are otherwise heinous criminals. 
Rusesabagina echoes this point repeatedly throughout his book. When he is threatened with death, he notices that his would-be murderer will not look him in the eye. From this observation, he concludes that within the person who is threatening to kill him, there is still some hesitance to kill another human being. He then exploits this cognitive dissonance, ultimately convincing the murderer to spare him and his family. This, once again, is an instance of Rusesabagina’s understanding that every human, regardless of their actions elsewhere, is capable of mercy.
The lessons Rusesabagina communicates in An Ordinary Man are not unique to genocide or war. Their relevance is maintained in even the most banal of circumstances, like petty disagreements between peers, or in misunderstandings among family members. As Rusesabagina repeatedly displays, assuming humanity and complexity in adversaries allows for a far more productive exchange, one that avoids far more catastrophic results. When, in everyday life, we have conflicts with others, we can utilize this lesson to create a situation that is far more conducive to positive interactions and a more collaborative environment. From Paul Rusesabagina’s experiences, we can learn that conflict can only be mediated if one is willing to embrace the humanity that is shared between themselves and their opponent. When one understands that others are neither absolutely good nor absolutely bad, then communication can be far more productive, and can produce far more sustainable results.
________________
        Winona LaDuke, renowned environmentalist and native activist, said in 1996 that “The thing about being an Indian person is that you feel most at home with your own people” (qtd. in J.W. 56). From the vast body of literature exploring the Native Experience, one can come to multiple conclusions regarding the cultures and values of indigenous people in the Pacific Northwest. Among the most ubiquitous of these values is that of family, which is a central idea in many works by Native Americans and outsiders alike. In oral tradition and the visual arts, native people demonstrate their reverence for the maintenance of strong family ties. Similarly, in their journals, Lewis and Clark consistently noted the value indigenous people placed in community and family.  The role of the community also takes on a particular significance in many modern works of indigenous literature, including Sherman Alexie’s Flight. In many ways, Flight concentrates on the generational trauma that has perforated the native experience since settlers arrived. In his work, Alexie indicates that for indigenous people today, the values of family and community are central to the replacement of this trauma with a renewed sense of cultural flourishing. Connections within native communities are of primary importance, both in history and present times, and any change that occurs on an individual level is therefore inevitably connected to the progress of the society at large. Thus, renewals of indigenous flourishing will be built on the foundations of family structures, and their connections to the communities in which they exist. 
        Native tradition is cemented largely in legend and story, both of which offer great insights into the mores of indigenous people, both in past and present. In one such legend, a man deviously ventures up a mountain to take shells, hiaqua, that are valued highly in his community . After he is decried by the spirits, the man learns that greed does not yield happiness or wellbeing. He then grows to be “contented with what he had, and he cheerfully shared with others [...] He told them what to do to make peace with the spirits who live on the mountain” (Clark 38). This is paramount for the maintenance of community; when generosity is valued over greed, the collective welfare takes on a greater significance, thereby leading to closer interpersonal connections. In another legend, a community works together to lift the sky again and provide room for the society to thrive: “The wise men shouted, ‘Ya-hoh!’ Everybody pushed, and the sky moved up a little. ‘Ya-hoh,’ the wise men shouted a second time, and everybody pushed with all his strength. The sky was lifted a little higher” (Clark 149). Here, again, is a representation of the significance of strong community ties in indigenous life. Only through cooperation and collaboration were people able to lift the sky and make their world better for themselves and the generations that follow them. The wise men, as the catalyst for this change, represent the importance of strong leadership as a force for progress throughout a group of people. At the end of one legend describing the creation of the world, the creator is shown to “live in his lodge at the top of the trail, with Sun Halo and with his daughter, Evening Sky” (Clark 133). Here, the role of the family is shown as integral not only to humans but also to divine figures and spirits. In this legend, it is apparent that family lies at the center of every facet of life, and that no individual, however great their power, is above their obligation to their community. The deification of this idea only further cements its relevance to indigenous people. Apparent in stories and legends, the values of community and family were central to indigenous life and acted as bastions for the maintenance of societies. These ideas extend beyond legend to physical manifestations, many of which were immediately apparent to outsiders.
        Meriwether Lewis and William Clark were two explorers sent by president Thomas Jefferson in 1803 to reconnoiter with the newly acquired territory of the western United States. As they traveled across the country and throughout the Puget Sound region, Lewis and Clark encountered multiple different tribes of Native Americans. When the explorers entered the homes of the indigenous people, they found that “Each house appeared to be occupied by about three families,” demonstrating the significance of both inter- and intra-familial connections in native societies of the Pacific Northwest (Lewis and Clark 337). As they entered the home of another tribe in the region, Lewis and Clark observed that “These houses are calculated for four, five, and six families, each family having a nice painted ladder to ascend up to their beds” (Lewis and Clark 338). Here, again, is a very clear manifestation of the value of the family and community to indigenous people. By creating living spaces centered around not only immediate families, but the union of multiple families, Native Americans represented the power of concord within a community as a base for the maintenance of positive affairs throughout a tribe, and even between different tribes. Not only did Lewis and Clark note the living places of native people, but also the places they created to lay their dead. When they came upon one such place, they supposed that “this must be the burying place for many ages for the inhabitants of those rapids; the vaults are of the most lasting timber, pine and cedar” (Lewis and Clark 335). This symbol for native veneration of their ancestors indicates that they valued very highly the collective foundations of their societies. In hallowing the places where they lay the dead, natives showed respect for the individuals and families that came before them, thus creating a tradition of community memory that likely created a common identity for all members of the society to adopt. In doing so, Native Americans formed a culture that centered around the collective wellbeing, one which was most prominently based on familial ties. It is therefore clear that in native culture in the Pacific Northwest, the family acted as a base for the interactions within the community as a whole.
        Perhaps nowhere is cultural tradition more physically apparent than in art. One dish on display at the Seattle Art Museum, for example, depicts an orca, an animal that was especially heralded in indigenous cultures of the Pacific Northwest. The dish was used in potlaches, “an arena in which esteemed clan treasures are displayed and honored,” where it served to symbolize the history of the clan and its values (Kadjisdu.axch II). Here, again, is an example of the importance of tribal ancestors in daily affairs. Native society was in many ways based on a common history and therefore relied on the maintenance of community bonds. Another symbol of this community-centered mindset rests in houseposts, which depicted family histories and “descriptions of the place where the first ancestor settled” (Hemasilakw). One brightly colored housepost is embellished with depictions of thunderbirds and a bear, which serve as a representation for the spiritual and cultural significance of the family and its history. The family histories that decorate these houseposts supported the house, both literally and figuratively, thereby depicting the incredible gravity placed in familial connections. Another housepost, showing an anthropomorphic monster gripping a bird, serves to “display the inherited crests of the owner of the house,” again revealing the significance of respect for one’s ancestors in indigenous life. The relevance of the housepost and the figures it depicted were often known only to the family whose history was depicted upon it. (Kwakwaka’wakw). In the houseposts and the potlatch dish, there is evidence of a consistent idea: that the family serves as a base for other communal relations to exist, and for the tribe to maintain its unity. 
        The relevance of family in indigenous cultures of the Pacific Northwest did not end when white settlers arrived. Rather, it evolved and often mutated, forming a significant part of the modern Native American experience. In Sherman Alexie’s Flight, main character Zits struggles with his identity as a Native American in a world that seems to reject him at every turn. Though he has grown up in the foster care system after the departure of his father and the death of his mother, he pays great attention to indigenous tradition and history “because it makes me feel more like a real Indian. Maybe I can’t live like an Indian, but I can learn how real Indians used to live and how they’re supposed to live now” (Alexie 12). Here, Zits demonstrates a reverence for his ancestors and their ways of living. Further, he recognizes that he can learn from the traditions of those who came before him, signifying the importance of cultural heritage for native people, as Lewis and Clark noted in their descriptions of native burial grounds. This veneration for native history does not limit itself to positivity. At one point in the book, Zits says to a white woman, “White people did this to Indians. You make us like this” (Alexie 136). This is an acutely insightful understanding of history in all of its nuances. The modern Native American experience is in many ways shaped by erasure and genocide, and Zits exhibits an understanding of this. From history, and from his ancestors, Zits gains an understanding of the world he exists in, and how he functions within it. This trauma, one that exists throughout generations, is shown again when Zits sees his father, drunk, indigent, and vulnerable. As is evident in stories and art produced by indigenous people throughout history, every family member takes on a particularly important role in cultivating well being and knowledge for younger generations. Zits observes his father as he realizes that “He cannot be a father. And so he runs. And as he runs, he closes his eyes. And as he closes his eyes, I close my eyes” (Alexie 156). The native experience as an extension of cultural history does not exist only on the scale of hundreds, even thousands, of years. Rather, it operates between generations and serves as a lesson, and possibly a warning, of what loss can do to a person and a family. This emphasis on familial ties is consistent with trends in art and literature, both old and new, and is central to indigenous life, in all ways. 
        Throughout artistic and literary works by Native Americans of the Pacific Northwest, few themes are as pronounced as those of family and community. The family operates as a base for change, and as a central unit in the makeup of society as a whole. Even with the arrival of Euro-American settlers and the destruction of many ways of living for native people, the family remains deeply significant as a force to hold communities together, and, possibly, to tear them apart. Modern literature substantiates this duality, and the great bearing family has on one’s life and the welfare of the community at large. To return cultural and physical agency to native people in the Pacific Northwest, therefore, family bonds must be not only maintained but strengthened.
________________
________________
        Collectively, the people of the Indian subcontinent make up almost one quarter of the world’s population, and yet, in the West, it is rare that their modern histories are discussed to any proportionate extent. If they are ever considered in historical interpretation, they are often treated as pawns in the larger-than-life Cold War narrative of American-Soviet conflict. While it is certainly true that a modern history of South Asian nations must include external forces, from the British to the Cold War superpowers, to consider this region only in the context of other nations is a gross oversimplification. And, while the issues of nationalism, injustice, poverty, and conflict in the subcontinent are invariably connected to external, often imperial, forces, they are also unique to the region, in both their functioning and their nature. From the 1970s until the 1990s, relations between and within South Asian nations took on a new, modern character, one which continues to plague the region to this day.
        Though conflict between Hindus and Muslims has existed in various forms throughout history, its contemporary form came about in large part as a result of British imperialism and its divisive means of control. As the British adopted their infamous “Divide and Rule” strategy throughout the late 19th century, riots and communal violence between the two dominant religious groups began to worsen. If Hindus and Muslims united against the British Raj, they thought, that colonial regime would inevitably collapse. In 1905, British Viceroy Curzon spearheaded the Partition of Bengal, against the overwhelming Indian consensus against the separation of the Bengal Presidency. Bengal, which was largely Muslim, had never in Indian history been politically separate from India, and many Hindus saw the Partition as an attempt by the British to turn them against their countrymen. As public outrage against the Partition rose, so too did Muslim nationalism in the subcontinent, which, despite its political validity, was largely in concurrence with British goals of dominance. Ultimately, in 1911, the Partition was reversed, but not before the Morley-Minto reforms of 1909 could establish separate electorates for Hindus and Muslims. In the Lucknow Pact of 1916, the Indian National Congress begrudgingly accepted the formation of these separate electorates.
        In 1920, violence broke out in the South Indian region of Malabar with a rebellion against British crackdowns on movements for self-determination. As the British severely suppressed the rebellion, it devolved into a violent religious struggle, pitting Muslims against Hindus. Atrocities were committed, and to this day, academics and scholars continue to debate the actual motive behind the Malabar Rebellion. Regardless, it heightened tensions between Indian Hindus and Muslims dramatically, and the violence displayed would become commonplace in the subcontinent. Political turmoil and violence continued to plague the subcontinent, and religious nationalism began to dominate political discourse. In 1920, Muhammad al Jinnah, a Muslim leader in the Indian nationalist movement who had coordinated the Lucknow Pact, left the Indian National Congress in response to the Hindu-dominant political mentality of Mohandas Gandhi, the Mahatma. Jinnah took on a position of leadership within the Muslim League, which in the late 1930s began advocating for Muslim independence, rather than the All-India plan they had advocated for previously. With Indian movements for self-determination rising rapidly alongside the ascendance of religious nationalism, the stage was set for upheaval. To compound the situation was the second World War and the fall of colonial regimes around the world, largely as a result of economic and political weakness in the former great powers. 
        Throughout the 1940s, conflict between Hindu and Muslim leaders widened. The Hindu-aligned Indian National Congress wanted desparately for the subcontinent to stay together, while the Muslim League, headed by Jinnah, became increasingly adamant on the creation of Pakistan. Protests and riots grew, a sign of what might be to come. Then, on June 3, 1947, the British government announced the Indian Independence Act, known as the Mountbatten Plan, which established provisions for the separation of India and Pakistan. Cyril Radcliffe, who had never travelled east of Paris, was tasked with drawing the border between the new nations. Without any sufficient information on the region, Radcliffe and his advisors drew a line based largely on religious demography, in what proved to be a common trend in post-colonial nation building: arbitrary borders designed without consideration of the people in such regions. In one of the most devastating humanitarian crises of the century, the Partition of India killed up to two million, and displaced 14 million more. Refugees starved and died as they were forced into their newly designated “homes,” based on nothing but general religious distribution. There is no way to encapsulate the horrors of Partition in so limited a space, but it is a tragedy that pervades the experience of the subcontinent to this day, and it will continue to define the relationships, both nationally and individually, of the region long into the future. 
        As Partition destroyed homes and lives, war broke out between India and Pakistan over the majority-Muslim, newly Indian regions of Jammu and Kashmir. When the war, the first of many, ended, Jammu and Kashmir were ceded to India, violating Pakistan’s claim to the only Muslim-majority states in India. Then, in the shadow of the Cold War, war broke out again in 1962. This time, the complicated alliances of India and Pakistan with the United States, Soviet Union, and China led to a UN-mandated ceasefire and an inconclusive result. By the end of the war in 1965, India retained Jammu and Kashmir, but their status remained in a delicate balance, one in which they remain to this day. 
In 1971, war ravaged the two nations once again, this time in Bangladesh, which was then East Pakistan. As Bengali calls for independence from Pakistan mounted, the dominant West Pakistani leadership cracked down harshly, invading Bangladesh under Operation Searchlight in March of 1971. India was brought into the conflict when Pakistan attacked one of its air bases, and rapidly ended the war, solidifying the independent nation of Bangladesh. This decisive result, led by Indira Gandhi’s forces, was a significant political victory, but its human cost was insurmountable. Throughout the Bangladesh Liberation War, West Pakistan carried out a systematic genocide of Bengalis and opposition forces, killing three million civilians in all and displacing countless others. Often neglected in western accounts of history, the Bangladesh Genocide of 1971 remains a scar in the consciousness of the region, sparking uproar to this day. Now, after the bloody Partition and a genocide, the subcontinent was splintered into three massive countries, all with complex and deeply rooted religious and social histories. 
In 1989, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan ended, leaving militant groups and technologies available. With the aid of Pakistan and other Muslim-dominant nations, many of these supplies were shipped into Kashmir, beginning the contemporary phase of the insurgency in that region. Riots broke out against India among Muslims in Kashmir, leading to chaos and destruction. Tens of thousands of Kashmiri Hindus fled the region, fearing for their lives. Throughout the 1990s, massacres, political upheaval, and social conflict would continue in a similar vein. Kashmir and Jammu, which had been disputed since Partition, once again became the victims of the broader geopolitical dispute between India and Pakistan, the foremost powers of South Asia, each of them having developed nuclear programs of their own in the 1970s. 
The century would not end without the eruption of another war. In May of 1999, Pakistani infiltrators posing as civilians were reported in Kashmir, leading India to begin Operation Vijay, mobilizing tens of thousands of soldiers against Pakistani incursion. In mountainous, high-altitude terrain, the war was a logistical nightmare, fought between two nuclear-armed powers with histories of intense conflict. While it only lasted about two months, the Kargil War proved decisive in India’s favor, restoring the region of Kargil, in Kashmir, to that nation. India, for the fourth time, held onto Kashmir and Jammu by virtue of its superior military forces, which were supported by the United States and other western democracies. Pakistan, which was carved in bloody fashion from India in 1947, disputed the result, continuing to lay claim to Jammu and Kashmir on the basis of their being majority Muslim.
Perhaps nowhere else in the world has religious conflict lasted in so much intensity for so long than in the Indian subcontinent. Since the 7th century when Muslism first arrived in India, to Hindu nationalist Narendra Modi’s 2014 election, the struggle between Islam and Hinduism has endured through political upheaval, global wars, epidemics, genocides, famines, and everything else imaginable. Exacerbated by artificial divisions put in place by the British, this religious and social crisis in many ways defined South Asia throughout the late 20th century, and it will likely continue to do so through the 21st. Today, in Kashmir and Jammu, internet and electricity is cut off, communal violence kills innocent civilians, and massive geopolitical conflict is played out in streets and homes. Bangladesh continues to reel from the genocide that happened almost half a century ago, its citizens begging for the justice they never received. And in Pakistan and India, the giants of South Asia, the memory of Partition and lives lost to war and division permeates memory and policy. There is no simple solution to the seemingly endless war between Muslim and Hindu in the subcontinent, but to begin to heal, there must first be a movement in Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, and everywhere in between, to reverse, in action and in thought, the devastation of British colonialism. Not only that, the people within the subcontinent and in the diaspora must be willing to confront their own complicated, and often ugly, histories, and to create a future where religious difference will never again be able to mutilate a people, or their continent.
________________
India is the world’s largest democracy, but it is also the world’s largest contradiction. Founded as a great secular democracy, India is now governed by a Hindu nationalist whose administration has supported violence and terror against Muslims in its jurisdictions. Among the most linguistically and ethnically diverse countries in the world, its history is marred by violence across religious, economic, and social lines. Its population having doubled to over one billion since the middle of the 20th century, it is home to some 100 billionaires, while millions within its borders live in extreme poverty. And, perhaps most incongruous of all, while the latter half of the 20th century has transformed India from an afterthought of the Cold War to a superpower in its own right, it has nonetheless remained as great a contradiction as it was on the dawn of its independence. If the last 50 years showed that India can change, they also proved that it retains very firmly its title as the largest contradiction in the world today.
        The contradiction of modern India is rooted in its very conception. As British rule deteriorated in the region and calls for independence heightened, so too did violence between Hindus and Muslims. When the subcontinent was divided along arbitrary religious lines by a British official, it descended into a bloody chaos that took some 2 million lives and displaced 15 million more. And yet, in India’s constitution, written in large part by B. R. Ambedkar, India’s preeminent anti-caste scholar, is a promise that “all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practise, and propagate religion.” While Pakistan, which had been carved away in Partition, became an Islamic republic, India’s founding document declares the country as a “sovereign socialist secular democratic republic.” Before independence, the Indian National Congress, led by none other than Mohandas Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru, fought to keep the increasingly separatist Muslim League from advocating the formation of a distinct nation for Muslims of the subcontinent. Despite their failure to maintain a single state, the leaders of the Congress nonetheless retained their promises of secularism in the country’s inception. India, a nation formed under the promise of secularism, was at its birth torn apart by religious divisions, setting in stone the contradictions that would come to define it throughout the rest of the century and beyond.
        India is no stranger to the edges of democracy. The idealism of its architects was almost immediately hampered by the barbarity of its founding, and the country has yet to break free of that vicious divide. Today, the Prime Minister of India is Narendra Modi, a Hindu nationalist whose former ministerial administration in Gujarat failed to put down the 2002 Hindu-Muslim riots that killed more than 1,000 and left behind 150,000 refugees. As Modi stokes anti-Muslim sentiments throughout the many regions of his country, hate crimes and other violent acts are on the rise. Meanwhile, the dispute with Pakistan over the regions of Jammu and Kashmir only escalates, with Modi and his subordinates repeatedly cutting off access to the internet and other vital resources in those areas. Nonetheless, India is still the largest democracy in the world; in the 2019 general election, over 900 million people, almost 70% of all eligible voters, cast their votes, ultimately reelecting Modi. Undoubtedly, this is an incredible showing of democratic vitality, one in which more than 10% of the world’s population participated. Here, again, is the contradiction of India painfully apparent. At the same time that the single largest electorate in history was casting its votes, the Prime Minister was actively repressing his own people due to the great geopolitical conflict at the border with Pakistan. The juxtaposition of such an exercise in democracy alongside so great a violation of human rights is an instance of Indian contradiction at its most apparent, not dissimilar in theme from the atrocities of Partition seventy years prior. 
        There is no doubt that India has changed dramatically since its inception, and especially within the last five decades. Poverty rates have dropped, education and literacy has improved drastically, women are entering the workforce at far greater rates, and access to clean and nutritious food and water has been supplemented by progressive social and economic policies. Alongside these developments, however, is a marked stagnation within the fabric of the country. India, which was forged in idealism, has for its entire history failed to meet the ideals on which it was formed, all while maintaining that those core tenants are still the underpinnings of the nation itself. The great paradox of India is that its ideals and its realities are divided, and yet, they endure. It is true that independence was only achieved after bloody religious strife, but it is also true that India has maintained in its core documents the values of secularism and democracy. It is true that India is home to the largest electorate in the history of the world, and yet, it holds true that the Prime Minister and his government are actively denying basic freedoms to people living in their jurisdictions. It is the task of tomorrow’s India to remedy these divides, and to bring both the country and the subcontinent to peace, both within and among themselves.
        India is more connected to the world than ever. Over 500 million Indians use the internet, the nation’s literacy rate is 75% and rising, and cross-cultural communication is becoming more prevalent by the day. At the same time, India is as divided as it has ever been. The conflict over Kashmir and Jammu continues to intensify, violence between Hindus and Muslims is still endemic, and the great experiment in democracy that is India is now faced with the global trend of democratic backsliding. The ideals and the realities of India are so often opposed to one another that it seems impossible for the country to remedy the two. However, as the world grows closer together and mechanisms for individual and collective agency (e.g. education) are developed, it is now feasible for the people of India to work towards a 21st century nation that stays true to its ideals and maintains its commitment to practical reality. Perhaps India will always be a contradiction. But, now, for the first time, it doesn’t have to be.
________________
For many years, Seattle’s role in the global economy has been a major one. When the Denny Party arrived in Seattle in 1851, the region was further incorporated into the fabric of the young United States of America. With these developments and the arrival of more immigrants from around the world came an increasingly organized system of education. In 1861, the first public school in the region, the University of Washington, was founded. Though it at first only offered primary education, its collegiate level courses began soon and, in 1876, Clara Antoinette McCartney Wilt became its first graduate. Meanwhile, in 1873, the first permanent public school building, the two-classroom Central School, opened. Because Seattle was positioned at a point of convergence between indigenous people, white settlers, East Asian workers, and later, immigrants from all around the world, those in power were pushed to create a system of education that maintained their authority and the economic strength of the region. Thus, the dominant white settlers who took hold over the city’s government crafted a schooling system which favored wealthy, white students, and thereby maintained systems of oppression that kept marginalized groups away from power. 
Throughout the late 19th and 20th centuries, this trend continued. For the entirety of Seattle’s often tumultuous history, educational systems have maintained hierarchies of oppression, keeping in place racist and classist systems that continue to define the city today. The history of education in Seattle aligns with the issues that continue to rack the Seattle Public School system to this day. The first school in King County was started in 1853 by Catherine T. Blaine, and remained the primary educational institution until the construction of what is now the University of Washington in 1861. In 1887, Edward Ingraham became the first superintendent of the Seattle Public School system (Bureau of Education, 1934). The Great Seattle Fire of June 1889, rather than limiting the city’s growth, “provided the opportunity for extensive municipal improvements,” including the construction of new schools (Frantilla). Between 1890 and 1990, thirteen schools were built in what is now King County, and between 1885 and 1993, the student population grew from just 1,500 to 6,650 (The Johnson Partnership). Seattle’s schools, it seems, were preparing the city for the 20th century.
But this is not a complete picture. In 1870, the Cushman Indian Trades School was established as a center for forced assimilation of indigenous children (Read). Cushman’s curriculum was centered entirely on the goal of destroying native culture in young people, and students “were prohibited from speaking their native languages and those caught ‘speaking Indian’ were severely punished” (Marr). For many, this meant the loss of native linguistic fluency and cultural identity. This was very much in line with the anti-indigenous agenda of settlers at the time, who, through cultural and physical might, forced Native Americans to concede to their exploitative practices. Cushman remained open until 1920, when assimilation schools began to collapse in the shadow of debt left by the first world war. Even as native children joined the general public school system, their education remained substandard, echoing trends among other marginalized groups in the region.
Chinese people became a significant presence in Seattle around 1870. By 1873, about 100 of Washington state’s 2,000 Chinese were in Seattle. Most of them were men who came to find employment with Henry Villard’s new railroad projects, and many of them moved to Seattle after the railroads were completed to find other work (Chin 15). Because most were adult laborers, there were few Chinese people attending schools in the region. Nevertheless, in the 1880s, Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Associations (CCBAs) sprang up along the west coast, especially in the Pacific Northwest, and became the first major source of Chinese language education in the region. Seattle’s CCBA, the Chong Wa Benevolent Association, however, generally neglected to “help with the acculturation of youthful immigrants from China,” often more focused on maintaining Chinese linguistic and cultural tradition (Bronson 179). 
With the shortcomings of the Chong Wa education systems came the rise of mission schools for Chinese students, and a few years later, Japanese students as well. While wealthy Chinese families sent their children to public schools, working-class children “had few chances to study English and similarly Western subjects” (Bronson 178). Christian missions, especially those of Baptist affiliation, became the only center of educational opportunity for these poor children in the 1890s. “By 1896 Chinese enrollment in classes at Seattle’s Baptist mission came to a hundred individuals, about a quarter of the Chinese population of the city” (Bronson 179). As more Japanese families immigrated to Seattle at the turn of the century, many of their children joined Chinese students at mission schools. While these schools often provided the only opportunity for poor children to receive primary education, they were largely focused on converting young people to Baptism. Christian teachings were compulsory in these schools, and due to their “Americanization” agenda, English was heavily favored over Mandarin and other Chinese dialects. In this way, the educational systems established in the late 1800s became a part of a regional and national movement to remove Japanese, and especially Chinese, influence on culture and society in the emerging United States. 
African American residents were in Seattle as early as the mid-19th century, but it wasn’t until the completion of railroads around 1890 that women and families began to immigrate en masse. Black Seattleites “were insulated from the more virulent expressions of prejudice by the presence of large numbers of Chinese immigrants” and Native Americans, who were the primary objects of torment at the turn of the century (Mumford 15). Many of these early black residents were either illiterate or semi-illiterate, largely due to the massive racial gap in education as a result of slavery. Though their persecution was perhaps less extreme than that directed towards Natives or Chinese, black people in early Seattle were often poor, and most adolescents were forced to work rather than attend school. In the 1880s, census reports show that some black students did attend public schools, but that the majority of African American children were either busy with work, or did not attend school at all (Mumford 140). In 1891, Seattle’s black population succeeded in lobbying the School Board for the creation of a night school, as “night was the only time they could study, as they had to work during the day to earn their living” (Mumford 142). It is likely that the School Board agreed to create this school because the education it provided offered very few, if any, opportunities for black Seattleites to threaten the social standing of white residents. Despite the founding of the night school, the Seattle School Board remained entirely white, black teachers were not hired until 1947, and it remained difficult for black students to use their education to improve their status, both economically and culturally. 
        Racial discrimination in Seattle’s schools was largely exacerbated throughout the 20th century as the non-white population exploded and the changes of the new century racked the region. On July 10, 1920, the Cushman Indian Trades School closed due to a lack of funding and the rise of native self-determination movements (Douglas). Native children were then sent to the general public school system, where patriotism sparked by World War 1 led to their cultures being, once again, washed over. In many ways, despite the assimilationist schools being closed down, their methods of whitewashing indigenous history continued throughout the 20th century. This pattern of patriotic nationalism as a weapon against cultural independence was common and spread throughout education for, among others, Native, Chinese, Japanese, and black children. 
        On February 19, 1942, just 74 days after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, President Franklin D. Roosevelt issued Executive Order 9066, which authorized the mass internment of Japanese Americans on the West Coast of the United State. This led to the emptying of Japanese students from Seattle’s schools. In a letter to the editor of the Seattle Star, a Seattle resident wrote that Japanese students “should be asked to speak American...on the streets. When in America do as the Americans” (Krona 2008). This sentiment was echoed in policy and action throughout the region. Broadway High School, the largest secondary school in Seattle at the time, lost ? of its student body to internment (End of an Era). In most internment camps, schools were opened and operated, primarily due to Japanese parents placing immense value on their children’s education. Of all systems in the internment camps, schools were regarded as uniquely democratic, in large part because they were often operated at the discretion “of center supervisors and educational directors,” rather than leading politicians in Washington, DC. That said, education for interned children was not absent of ulterior motives on behalf of the federal government. The War Relocation Agency, which was established to carry out the internment of Japanese-Americans, required that schools in camps taught students about the importance of their assimilation into “American” society. The hypocrisy of their being taught about American ideals of democracy and freedom while being kept in internment camps was not lost on students, one of whom later recalled “the irony of learning the Pledge of Allegiance while being kept behind barbed wire in the camps” (Su). Schools in the camps, though regarded as a relatively high point in the context of internment, were ultimately designed to force the assimilation of Japanese children into the dominant, increasingly nationalist, culture of the United States at the time (Takamura).
        When, in 1954, the United States Supreme Court decided in Brown v. Board of Education that racial segregation in schools was unconstitutional, leaders in Seattle were initially unresponsive. However, after multiple lawsuits, many of which came from the NAACP, the public school system was forced to react. In August of 1963, the School Board approved the Voluntary Racial Transfer program, which by 1965, involved just 90 of the over 62,000 students in the Seattle School District (Task Force on Racial Justice in Education). The program proved to be ineffective in desegregating Seattle’s schools, and though the district somewhat improved on its initial plan over the next few years, little progress was made. Then, in 1977, under increasing legal pressure from the NAACP, the School Board voted to approve a mandatory desegregation program, known today as the Seattle Plan, which mandated integrated bussing for students throughout the city (Tate). Even so, racial divides continued to be prevalent in schooling for African American students, and as re-segregationist movements swept across the country, many of the steps forward by the NAACP and School Board in Seattle were reversed, both culturally and politically.
        The trends of discrimination on racial lines continued throughout the rest of the 20th century and into the 21st. In 2017, 31.25% of Native American students in Seattle Public Schools dropped out within 4 years, with African American students dropping out at a rate of 13.17% over the same time span. That same metric was at around 8.93% for Asian students, and 7.40% for white students (Seattle Public Schools). In the Seattle Public Schools, white students perform approximately 3.88 grade levels above black students, who perform at a grade level under the national average. (Stanford Educational Opportunity). Due in large part to the intersection of socioeconomic class and race, black and indigenous students continue to be, on average, far below their white and Asian counterparts in terms of quantitative academic performance. They are also far more likely to drop out of high school or to face disciplinary action, factors that worsen their prospects for success in the future. 
        Asian students, both in Seattle and across the country, have generally escaped the discrimination they once faced in the educational and economic sectors. In fact, Asian-American children and teenagers often outperform their white counterparts, sometimes by a relatively large margin. The question of why Asian-Americans have been able to succeed so remarkably in education is a complex one, and has no simple answer. There are many theories, but from a Seattle-specific historical lens, one can come to some intriguing conclusions. The violent racism Asians faced in the late 1800s and early 1900s was horrific and deadly, and yet, their early educational systems were central parts of their social lives, and high value was placed on schooling as a means to the maintenance of cultural tradition. Especially during Japanese internment in World War II, assimilationist schools certainly existed, but given that Asians largely came to the region looking for work, they tended to place high value on modern, industrial education.
        This fact is not true in the case of indigenous and African American people. Native Americans were in Seattle far before white settlers, and their conquest was one that stripped them of their identity. Assimilation schools run by settlers were the beginning of a long tradition in the education of Native Americans based on cultural and social erasure. African Americans, on the other hand, largely arrived in the Pacific Northwest after the conclusion of the Civil War. Often former slaves or children of slaves, they tended to be semi-literate and without formal education. This proved to be a heavy impediment to their social mobility, and largely forced them to turn to physical labor as a means to make a living. African Americans and Native Americans, unlike their Asian counterparts, were, by means of slavery and genocide respectively, stripped of their heritage before educational systems even became formalized in Seattle. This fact is reflected in conditions of the late 1800s, as well as in performance measurements of students in Seattle’s public schools today. 
        Since the Denny Party founded Seattle in 1851, formal education has been a major factor in the region’s social and political affairs. As confrontations between settler-colonial and native culture began to take hold, white residents created assimilationist schools in an attempt to deplete indigenous power and strip native people of their cultural freedom. As Chinese and Japanese immigrants began to settle in Seattle, they were faced with extreme violence, and were generally forced to create their own systems of education outside of those available to white students. African American families and children came to the region with minimal resources and educational experience, and were therefore not equipped with the tools or the privilege to be active participants in Seattle’s schools. 
        The city of Seattle and the Pacific Northwest have a long and tumultuous history of race and racism, one that is inextricably tied to socioeconomic status and educational performance. From the very beginnings of education in the area, racial minorities have been systematically excluded from proper schooling that would grant them better prospects for social mobility and cultural integrity. The echoes of this unequal history are very much present today, most obviously in the performance gaps between racial groups. To create a system that works for everybody, it is necessary that leaders and students in Seattle look to their history to understand exactly what conditions created today’s injustices, and what can be done to resolve them. 
________________


It is impossible to miss the impact of money on American life. From where we buy our food, to how we get to work, to what we choose to watch on TV, we are guided in almost every way by the underlying currents of financial power. This extends to political campaigns, with calls from legislative campaigns requesting donations being a constant reminder. Perhaps one place where the role of money is not so transparent, however, is in how those candidates are actually chosen. That is, who decides who appears on the ballot that voters receive? Through an analysis of funding in Congressional and presidential campaigns, one arrives at a specific conclusion: that it is a very small, wealthy group of people who play a disproportionately large role in determining who is nominated, and who is not. Wealthy individual donors and special interest groups hinder American democracy by filtering the selection of viable Congressional candidates through what they consider to be acceptable.
        Candidacy for Congressional seats is resource-intensive, and the sum of money required to stage a successful campaign is significant. In 2016, the average Senatorial candidate spent $8,277,186 on their campaign, while winning candidates spent on average $10,464,068.[2] That same year, candidates for the House of Representatives spent $1,128,559 on average. Winning House candidates spent an average of $1,516,021.[3] The correlation between increased campaign spending and electoral success is clear: candidates who spend more on their campaigns yield more favorable electoral outcomes. In House and Senate races, winning candidates spent 134% and 126% more than their opponents, respectively. This positive relationship is of particular strength for candidates who are challenging incumbents. While incumbents generally have a track record which in itself serves as an information base for the electorate, challengers are tasked with creating for themselves an entirely new public impression, and therefore must spend more to disseminate their messaging. Popular incumbents will often win elections regardless of their spending efforts, but challengers who spend more on their campaigns tend to gain far greater appeal among the public than those who spend less. In the House, “high-spending challengers [reduce] the incumbent’s familiarity advantage, while low-spending challengers remain far behind” (Jacobson, 209). Lower spending on behalf of incumbents can usually be explained by a lack of necessity due to popularity, not an inverse relationship between spending and electoral success. Incumbents who do spend more than others tend to see positive returns, albeit more marginal than their challenger counterparts. When it comes to winning seats in Congress, it is clear that greater spending yields greater results. To stage a successful campaign, particularly as a challenger, candidates must be willing and able to invest a significant amount of time and money into their efforts. The sources of these vast sums of resources are concentrated in the upper echelons of American economic society. 
        The vast majority of major campaign contributions come from extremely wealthy individuals, corporations, and/or special interest groups, all of whom are therefore given disproportionate control over who can stage a viable campaign, and who cannot. In 2020, and for most modern elections before then, less than .2% of the adult population donated more than $2,700 to political candidates of the two major parties[4]. In 2010, individual donors accounted for about ? of Senate funding and ½ of funding for House candidates[5]. Given the great significance of individual donations to Congressional campaigns, the fact that donations come, almost unanimously, from a tiny, wealthy subsection of the American population, demonstrates a great disparity in terms of access to political mechanisms across class lines. In fact, over 40% of campaign contributions are made by the top .01% of American voters (Bonica et al., 2013). Further, it has been shown that wealth, more than civic skills, education, or free time, is the greatest determinant of financial contributions to political causes and campaigns (Brady et al., 1995). The wealthy, with immense capital at their disposal, drive the political process through donations to individuals and organizations that go on to make decisions, both legislative and executive. Meanwhile, over 99% of America is left behind in the political process, taking on a passive role in every step of the election until the submission of their ballot itself. By that point, decisions have already been made about who is worthy of consideration for candidacy, nomination, and, ultimately, elected office. 
Because it takes so much wealth to even consider running a successful campaign for a Congressional position, candidates must maximize the amount of wealthy donors who support them. If a candidate cannot receive the support of significant funding sources, then their campaign is likely over before it can even begin. The process of selecting candidates for nomination, and eventual election, is therefore filtered through the preferences of the uber-wealthy, creating an elite political class that serves the top of American society far before it tends to the rest of the country. In presidential elections, “candidates with greater [financial] resources are better able to outdistance their competitors” and receive the nomination (Haynes et al., 223). This pattern repeats itself in Congressional races, where candidates with large financial resources at hand tend to receive greater public support for their nomination. Perhaps more importantly, however, candidates with greater financial support also tend to have the favor of party leadership, who play a significant role in determining nomination for Congressional elections. “Parties clearly have an affinity for wealthy individuals who can finance their own campaigns,” as well as those who receive the support of donors who can do the same (Franz et al., 142). Because so many Congressional elections take place across the country at the same time, parties must be wise with the amount of resources they are willing to expend. If a candidate has financial backing, either from their own personal wealth or from other wealthy donors, then the party need not worry about wasting their precious resources on a race where their candidate is already poised to win. Further, apart from the fact that parties are motivated by the availability of resources, they also have a great incentive to put forward winning candidates. Given that candidates, especially challengers and weaker incumbents, tend to be more successful with more money at hand in their campaign, parties will support those candidates with wealthy supporters. These candidates are more likely to win their elections, which adds to the political and economic clout of their party. The party establishment then has a significant reason to support this candidate for nomination. It is only after the candidate is nominated and placed on the ballot that the public as a whole has official say in who represents them. 
Long before ordinary civilians are presented with their options for representation, wealthy donors and special interest groups are acting to determine who they see fit for nomination. If, as is routine, the wealthy are given behind-the-scenes access to the process of candidate selection, then it is only logical that the legislative process will favor them. After all, if nominees must garner support of the wealthy to even contend for office, then every nominee will, at least passively, have the support of the very top of the American class system. “The donor class effectively selects which candidates will be viable through large hard money contributions” (Overton, 77). There is concrete evidence that legislative and political representation is not evenly distributed across class lines. Wealthy individuals and groups have the most sway in policy outcomes, and it is only when wealth happens to align with the interests of the poor that policy reflects the preferences of lower class Americans (Gilens, 2011). There is a less concrete consequence of this inequality as well: subjective experiences of politics. For citizens to feel that they are connected to the political process of the nation, they “must feel that there is some reasonable prospect for their participation to lead eventually to actions that affect them” (Gardner, 1247). The current system does not provide for this. Rather, citizens are offered a limited slate of candidates whose power comes from the preliminary support of wealthy interests, not the general public. Political alienation seems inevitable, then, when hundreds of millions of people are excluded from active participation in the political process up until the very eve of the election.  
Perhaps the founders’ great enemy, ‘taxation without representation’, has not in fact disappeared, but evolved. No longer is there a legislative body across the ocean with no reason to represent the people it rules. In its place, there is a political process at home that claims to act by the people’s will, but is instead funded, processed, and often motivated by a fraction of the top 1% of Americans. Prior to any significant, active participation by ordinary citizens, the wealthiest members of society have already decided which candidates can fulfill their own preferences, and which candidates will not. By filtering representation through an extremely limited set of perspectives, the American electoral system is actively denying the vast majority of the population their democratic right to participation throughout the political process. When the system of legislative candidacy, nomination, and election is designed to serve the few over the many, it follows naturally that elected officials will represent a very narrow scope of the national identity, thereby creating a national body that makes decisions and enacts policy on behalf of a select few, at the direct expense of the people as a whole. 


________________
[1] https://press-pubs.uchicago.edu/founders/documents/v1ch16s23.html
[2] http://www.cfinst.org/pdf/vital/VitalStats_t5.pdf
[3] http://www.cfinst.org/pdf/vital/VitalStats_t2.pdf
[4] https://www.opensecrets.org/elections-overview/donor-demographics
[5] https://www.opensecrets.org/resources/dollarocracy/04.php
China’s rise over the last 40 years has been due to economic and social reforms that allowed China’s GDP to skyrocket. Through 4 main reform projects, China dramatically reduced the poverty rate, increased the literacy rate, and encouraged urbanization. This shift of focus from farming to big-city economic ventures allowed it to take the spot of the world’s second largest economy. China currently has peaceful plans to continue to grow their economy including investing in innovative technology and the Belt and Road Initiative. The United States, however, may become a barrier for their continued growth as they feel threatened by a rising regional power. One topic over which tension is rising is both countries’ relationships with North Korea. North Korea and the US’ relationship has always been rocky and is continuing on this trajectory with threats of nuclear war. With North Korea and the US being two of China’s biggest and most important trade allies, the problematic relationship between the US and North Korea will not only affect China’s economy, but may drag China into the middle of the conflict. China has plans to rise to power peacefully, but the triangular relationship between the three countries and realist philosophy will likely entangle China into conflict.
China and North Korea have a long-standing relationship because of the border they share. Throughout Kim-Il-sung and Kim-Jong-il’s administrations, China has remained a strong ally and trade partner to North Korea. Since Kim-Jong-un’s rise to power, however, this relationship has begun to be put under strain. Kim-Jong-un didn’t meet with China’s president Xi JinPing until March 2018, almost a decade after rising to power. Since this meeting, Kim and Xi have met several more times and it seems that Kim is starting to warm up to the idea of a closer relationship with China, similar to the administrations of his father and grandfather. China is currently North Korea’s main trading partner whereas North Korea is 4th on China’s list. It seems that trade relations are weakening as evinced by China’s imports from North Korea in 2018 dropping by 88% and exports to North Korea dropping by 33%. Tensions around North Korea’s nuclearization are also rising. In October 2006 the UN imposed sanctions on North Korea after a nuclear missile test. China supported the UN’s decision and also condemned this nuclear test. In November 2017, after another nuclear test by North Korea, China told North Korea to stop increasing tension on the Korean peninsula with their nuclear research and development. Another growing point of tension is the amount of North Korean refugees escaping to China. China has tightened its northern borders to try to prevent such a large volume of people looking for refuge from the regime. One of the largest and most concrete issues is China’s want to change parts of the Sino-North Korean treaty of 1961. This treaty outlines the agreement of mutual assistance between China and North Korea if either of them went to war. China now is trying to change this part of the agreement saying they would want to remain neutral in the case of any conflict. This may be in regards to growing tensions between the US and North Korea, and China is trying not to get roped into their conflict. Although North Korea committed to denuclearization and a dialogue with the US at Kim and Xi’s meeting in 2018, neither of these promises have seen much action. Overall, it seems that China is moving away from North Korea by limiting trade, increasing relations with South Korea, and changing their commitments to mutual aid. Chinese and American representatives have indicated that China is distancing itself from North Korea, but would be interested in helping to shape a “post-Kim Korean peninsula.” In the end, China wants to remain peaceful and doesn’t want to push North Korea too hard in fear of military action and dangerous repercussions. 
The US’ relationship with North Korea has never been very amiable nor stable. The Trump administration made progress with the Kim-Jong-un administration, but after issues concerning nuclearization, the relationship has been strained even further. Both China and the US want to denuclearize North Korea, but have different ideas on how to go about it. China doesn’t want to push them too aggressively, but the US wants China to use its economic power over North Korea to influence them. The US wants China to impose tariffs on North Korean goods and cut funding for North Korea from Chinese banks in exchange for North Korea’s denuclearization. China fears that doing this may result in dangerous consequences, both in the economic and military sense. North Korea’s nuclear program is straining the US and China’s relationship and Victor Cha from the US Center for Strategic and International Studies said “[the US] wanted to treat China as part of the solution, and, if that didn’t work, treat them as part of the problem” (Council on Foreign Relations). Since China has a lot of influence over North Korea, many believe that “[the U.S.] goal should be convincing China that as a near superpower, or near peer of the United States, it no longer needs North Korea as a buffer state,” as Isaac Stone Fish and Robert E Kelly said in their book Foreign Affairs. The US wants to use China’s realist philosophy to convince them that they shouldn’t be afraid of North Korea and, in fact, China really doesn't need to worry about them. There are, however, some problems with this plan. Realists believe that states want to be the most powerful in their region so as to maintain their safety and advance with their internal goals. States don’t want to necessarily achieve world domination as this is unsustainable, but want to be powerful enough in their region that they have other states working under them and no one equal in power to them so they aren’t attacked. With the US and China being the first and second largest economies in the world as of 2019[1], they both hold massive global economic power. Having two countries with very similar amounts of economic power is a situation that realists don’t want. Two equally powerful states, regardless of proximity, will have tension and may lead to conflict. 
Realists don’t seek out conflict, but believe it is inevitable and prepare for it. We can see this in action in China’s 2019 Defense White Paper and the US’ 2017 National Security Strategy and 2018 National Defense Strategy. The 2017 National Security Strategy indicated that the US was shifting its main focus from counterterrorism to possible conflict with China and Russia[2]. It also talked about preparing for new “challenges to [the] economic and national security,” likely pointing to China as an economic competitor. The 2018 National Defense Strategy outlines their main goals and says “The surest way to prevent war is to be prepared to win one” (Dept of Defense), supporting this realist approach. It also outlines how the US strengthened its military power against its challengers. China’s 2019 Defense White Paper names the US as its competing superpower and explains that it is strengthening its military forces to be able “to the point where they will be able to challenge the United States” (Central for Strategic and International Studies). 
North Korea’s nuclear plans have affected North Korea’s relationship with China and, in turn, affected the relationship between China and the US. In addition, China’s exponential economic growth has threatened the US’ top position as the global economic superpower, causing a tense situation that no realist state wants. As the US and China begin to equal economic and military power, one will eventually want to trump the other, likely ending in conflict. Both countries consider the other as their top concern and are both prepared to defend their positions. Although China has advanced peacefully up to this point, their continued growth may lead them into isolated conflicts with the US. Given the complicated and intertwined history of North Korea, China and the US, it is not hard to imagine North Korea and their nuclear ambitions being one of those conflicts.
The Rohingya muslim persecution crisis in Myanmar has gained international attention, but not international action. After years of religious discrimination, in 2016, the Rohingya were attacked, imprisoned, raped, and tortured by the Myanmar military[3]. Rohingya refugees are now living in terrible conditions in refugee camps in countries including Bangladesh, Thailand, and Indonesia. Despite the United Nations calling for “immediate action” to protect the Rohingya Muslims[4], states and organizations have not made any efforts to help. Member states of one organization in particular, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), have refused to help because Myanmar is part of the organization and they don’t want to act against one of their own. However, ASEAN could make the most progress in protecting the Rohingya because of their proximity to, cultural and societal similarities with, and alliance with Myanmar. ASEAN can impose a two-part plan to protect the Rohingya: first by pressuring Myanmar to allow the Rohingya to return to Myanmar with a plan to protect them and their freedoms, and if that doesn’t work, then finding an alternate place for the Rohingya to live in peace.
        The ASEAN is a coalition of ten countries in southeast Asia that work together to foster liberal views which include supporting the interests of each other, having free and easy trade, and protecting the people in the participating countries[5]. The ASEAN is made up of Myanmar, Thailand, Indonesia, Brunei, Lao PDR (Laos), Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, Vietnam, and Cambodia. The ASEAN has the most power to protect the Rohingya because of its relationship with Myanmar. First, Myanmar voluntarily joined ASEAN and committed to its missions. The ASEAN’s biggest mission is to protect people. There is no distinction on their website about protecting only the citizens of the ten countries or only people of a certain religion, so they must include the Rohingya in this responsibility to protect. All of the countries in the ASEAN are in southeast Asia and have similar geographies, trade partners, and cultural influences and understandings so there is an immediate connection and trust between these like countries. Because Myanmar joined the ASEAN willingly, has continued to be an active member, and has a connection with the other countries, the ASEAN can have the most power in swaying Myanmar and protecting the Rohingya. 
        The ASEAN should enact a two part plan: first, economically pressure Myanmar to take the Rohingya back and promise to protect them, and, if they don’t, find a suitable country for the Rohingya to live in, free of persecution. During a conflict or international issue, liberal countries exhaust all peaceful options before going to war. This case has already seen enough violence and there are many non-violent paths to take before going to war. Economically pressuring Myanmar could have a big effect in getting them to take back and protect the Rohingya. Myanmar’s economy relies heavily on trading agricultural goods so putting sanctions or tariffs on trade would quickly affect their livelihood. Thailand is Myanmar’s biggest trading partner[6] and would have a lot of power in influencing decisions through economic pressure. If Thailand were to impose sanctions on trade or reduce trade with Myanmar, it could, on behalf of the ASEAN, create a plan to take back and protect the Rohingya. Temporary effects on trade would not affect Thailand very much as Myanmar isn’t one of Thailand's top five trading partners and Thailand gets the agricultural goods it gets from Myanmar from other countries as well[7]. This economic pressure through trade would then only dramatically affect Myanmar. 
        When Myanmar is ready to discuss removing sanctions or reopening trade, the ASEAN can propose its conditions. Myanmar would have to allow the Rohingya to return to their home in the Rakhine State with citizenship and would have to create a plan to protect the Rohingya from military and civilian attacks. Because the 2016 attacks branded the Rohingya as “terrorists,”[8] it’s likely there may be civilian opposition upon their return, in addition to military opposition. Myanmar would have to account for this and provide plans to control these possible outbreaks. If Myanmar doesn’t provide an adequate plan or cannot effectively protect the Rohingya, the ASEAN will have to move on with the second part of the plan - relocation. 
        Although not ideal, the Rohingya may not be able to return home to Myanmar safely and may have to find another place to live. Two ASEAN countries would be a good fit to accept the Rohingya who wish to relocate: Thailand and Indonesia. Thailand has many different minority groups including some Rohingya refugees because of its proximity to Myanmar[9]. Unlike religious minorities in Myanmar, many different religious groups live in harmony in Thailand. King Bhumibol has been very accepting of many different groups of refugees over the years and there are large minority groups spread out throughout the country. Historically, Thailand has been generous with giving refugees citizenship status. Although these efforts are slowing down and fewer refugees are receiving citizenship, there are organizations working to give political refugees Thai citizenship and Thailand is very accepting of people regardless of citizenship status. In terms of where the Rohingya may find work, Thailand has a very similar climate to Myanmar and has many of the same agricultural resources and practices. In the Rakhine State in Myanmar, many people worked in rice fields and as fishermen[10]. Thailand is famous for their fishermen and has a climate very well suited for growing rice. The southern and western parts of the country, especially, support these two fields very well. In addition, the western region is where most of the Rohingya and other Myanmar refugees live, so new political refugees would be with people they know. The southern peninsula has a large muslim population, but they mostly speak Thai. In either area, the Rohingya would be around similar groups of people, in a country that welcomes refugees. 
        Indonesia would also be a good fit to take in Rohingya refugees. First of all, Indonesia is a muslim country so the Rohingya would be unlikely to face the same religious persecution that they did in Myanmar. Indonesia also boasts about its diversity and celebrates that the people in their country represent most of the world’s major religions and speak many different languages[11]. The Rohingya are bound to find communities where they share similarities. Although Indonesia’s climate is different from Myanmar as it is on the equator, it has coastal plains for farming and fishing with lots of natural resources. 
        Ultimately, the goal is to protect the Rohingya muslims from religious persecution in Myanmar and allow them to thrive within their own culture and community. The ASEAN has liberal responsibilities to work as a connected organization to support and protect the people living in their countries. The ASEAN can use nonviolent tactics to persuade Myanmar to assist in creating a safe space for the Rohingya, but, if that doesn’t work, the Rohingya can find refuge in other ASEAN countries willing to support them. 
Artificial intelligence is the future of technology and its use in data analysis, healthcare, creative applications and more is an incredible step towards a fully automated future. However, its effectiveness in assessing reoffending rates and risks in convicted individuals is still flawed. Artificial intelligence is not yet complex enough to understand human motivations and behaviours, much less predict them. Its use in risk assessment in courts can lead to dire circumstances and perhaps more overcrowding in prisons as the technology is plagued by a biased past without an understanding of the complicated human consciousness. 
Risk assessment AI uses historical data of past convictions and looks for patterns of reoffending rates[12]. It then compares the behaviour of the defendant to these historical patterns to give a numerical likelihood that they might reoffend. The judge can then take this into account when deciding upon a sentence. This sounds like it would make sense, using data from tons of convictions throughout history. It’s pretty much taking patterns of human behaviour to do a risk assessment. And this would be very effective if every past conviction was flawless. However, the United States justice system is rooted in a history of racial and income bias. Jim Crow laws and the civil rights movement put thousands of Black men and women in jail for simply wanting the same rights as everyone else. The war on drugs imprisoned thousands of Black and hispanic men and women because of how their race was associated with drugs. These are historical convictions and are data points that risk assessment AI uses to create its algorithm. Therefore, the “patterns [found] may overly replicate biases” (Criminal Law Blog). If these biases are then applied to a Black man with a drug charge, the algorithm would see the vast number of drug charges against Black men in its data, and give a biased reoffender score. 
Even if one were to comb through the data and pick out each possibly biased data point, today’s AI is not equipped to assess the human psyche. There is no one source of motivation for someone to commit a crime. We often see a history of abuse in many killers, or a history of financial struggles in those with drug charges, but each individual’s motivation or reaction is unique to them and is something that our technology currently cannot understand, much less predict. Even humans cannot predict one’s behaviour or reaction to a certain situation. For example, a woman in Canada was raped by a man she went on a date with and took her case to court. However, when she was being cross-examined by the defense, one of the biggest questions was why she didn’t cry when she was being asked questions on tape[13]. The woman said “I was in shock, I don’t think I could cry” (CBC). The defense had expected the woman to cry after a traumatic event, similar to others’ reactions in similar cases, but her behaviour didn’t perfectly fit this idea. This behaviour played a large part in the defense’s case that the woman was making everything up. Whether one would cry or not in a situation like this is dependent on many factors, some of which are just natural, unpredictable bodily functions. If people can’t predict this behaviour, an algorithm cannot be trusted either. 
We are dealing with people’s lives, their family’s lives, their communities, and much more. When working with unpredictable human behaviour and motivations, coupled with racially and income-biased data, we can’t take the risk to lock someone away for years because a bunch of zeros and ones said to. 
Solitary confinement was introduced in 1829 as a place for prisoners to study the Bible and repent in isolation[14], but was abandoned a few years later because of how many inmates went insane, committed suicide, or could no longer function in society. If we saw how horrific the effects of solitary were, why did we reintroduce solitary confinement as a treatment 100 years later? Studies have been analyzing the psychological effects of solitary confinement for decades, and have proven over and over that solitary confinement does nothing but damage the minds of inmates. 
Solitary confinement is often used to treat conflicts between inmates by isolating those involved. Many of these conflicts can come from mental health issues or general aggression that inmates have, which are often exacerbated in a prison environment. However, solitary confinement has been proven to create or worsen existing mental issues. This means that solitary confinement does not treat issues, it makes them worse, which can lead to more conflicts; more conflicts can lead to more time in solitary confinement, and the cycle repeats. 
One study from 1983 studied 15 inmates in a Massachusetts Correctional Facility in Walpole who were placed in solitary confinement from between 11 days and 10 months. It was a study to support a class action suit against cruel and unusual punishment. Every inmate developed some combination of the following symptoms: sensitivity to noise, light, and other stimuli, hallucinations and delirium, anxiety, difficulties with thinking and memory, aggressive tendencies, and inability to control impulses.[15] All of the inmates reported that they felt relief from their symptoms whenever the steel door to their solitary confinement cell was opened for a period of time (24 hours every 15 days). During interviews with each inmate, there was a guard standing outside of the interview room. At first, inmates wouldn’t admit to having any of the above symptoms saying things like “Solitary doesn’t bother me” or “Some of the guys can’t take it - not me.” This shows a clear problem with the rhetoric around solitary confinement between inmates as some kind of test of one’s strength. After further questioning, inmates began whispering and opening up about their symptoms, saying that if the guards heard that they were affected by solitary confinement they would “see a weakness that they could exploit to make the inmate ‘crack up’” (p 1452). Not only is there an issue with the culture and rhetoric around solitary confinement between inmates, but also an enormous issue with prison guards using inmates’ mental illnesses and other psychological issues against them. This study, also citing multiple other studies, finds that “the use of solitary confinement carries major psychiatric risks” (1454). Although this study was from 1983, many studies have since been carried out and have come to the same conclusions. One inmate was placed in solitary for a total of 10 years over his 18 year sentence, and has had “emotional breakdowns” since his release. He describes others’ experiences as well: “we would watch guys come to prison totally sane, and in three years they don't live in the real world anymore [...] [one inmate] would go out into the recreation yard, get naked, lie down and urinate all over himself. He would take his feces and smear it all over his face” (apa). We can clearly see both the short term psychological effects of solitary confinement, as well as long term effects long after inmates are released. 
I propose an alternative to treat mental health issues that has been implemented in multiple New York City jails. This program is called the CAPS program which offers different therapeutic exercises like individual and group therapy, art therapy, and medication counseling. Inmates get the individual mental health resources they need, while also being able to talk with other inmates, allowing for opportunities to support each other and work through conflicts. It allows real mental health professionals to deal with the mental health issues that could cause conflicts that would normally be dealt with using solitary confinement. With this program, conflicts in prisons can be targeted at the root of the problem by people who are trained to deal with these issues. Essentially, the program is similar to an in-patient experience in between a normal prison experience and a full-time mental health facility. It is for inmates with mental health issues that majorly affect their behaviour, but who understand the crime they committed and are being punished for it (as opposed to a full-time mental health facility for those who are mentally impaired to the point of not understanding the difference between right and wrong).
The CAPS program was tested in several New York City jails and compared to the RHU program where inmates are kept in solitary all day except for about 4 hours in which they may have some therapy. Between December 2013 and March 2015, 195 and 1433 inmates went through the CAPS and RHU programs, respectively[16]. This study found that rates of self harm and injury were significantly lower when inmates were housed in CAPS compared to when they were housed in RHU or the general prison housing. It also found that the amount of conflicts after release from the CAPS system decreased. The study found that the CAPS system did what it was supposed to: “provide a therapeutic alternative to solitary confinement” (IJERPH) for inmates with mental health or aggression issues. The study suggested that the regular prison environment was really stressful for prisoners with issues in the first place, and CAPS allowed them to serve their sentence without added stress[17]. The CAPS system is still being improved but right now it costs $1.5 million dollars each year for up to 30 inmates, which mostly goes towards hiring mental health professionals. This sounds like a lot of money for a program of only 30 inmates, but the amount it costs to house an inmate in regular prison housing can be up to $60,000 per year, while this program only costs $50,000 per inmate per year and reduces injury and conflicts between inmates. This program could actually save the prisons money - they pay less per inmate annually and if conflicts and injuries are reduced, they save money on hospital bills and other property damage expenses resulting from these altercations. 
Solitary confinement has been proven over and over to cause immense amounts of harm to the mental and physical health of inmates and has not been proven to actually reduce conflicts between inmates. Instead of using solitary confinement, the CAPS program has been proven to reduce harm to inmates and conflicts between inmates, at a reasonable cost. The point of incarceration, generally, is to punish people for their crimes so they can learn from them. They then take this new understanding and go back into society to live out the rest of their lives. Locking inmates into a small, empty, white room with no human contact for weeks or even months at a time guarantees that they will never be able to go back out into the world and live a normal life. We cannot keep destroying peoples’ psyches and hinder them from getting back to their families, reuniting with their communities, and living a successful, fulfilling life. 
Mikhail Bakhtin enjoyed Dostoevsky’s writing because of how much it emulates human life. Bakhtin felt the characters were similar to humans in the way that they all live within their own realities and use these realities to make decisions; a concept called polyphony. All humans have their individual view of the world and their own moral compass, which allows them to decide if an action is right or wrong. Dostoevsky’s characters each perform according to their own morals, making their decisions and actions pretty unpredictable, just like those of humans. Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov acts within his own understanding of the world, according to which  there are two types of people: ordinary people and extraordinary people. “‘Ordinary people must live in obedience and do not have the right to overstep the law, because, you see, they’re ordinary’” (Dostoevsky 284) but extraordinary people create real change and, therefore, can overstep the law to see this change through. Raskolnikov defends this by saying: “‘Those who stand out just slightly from the everyday rut, [...] those who are even marginally capable of uttering some new word must [...] be criminals [...] otherwise it would be difficult for them to break out of the rut’” (Dostoevsky 286).  Since these extraordinary people are necessary for the growth of a society, they can afford to bend the rules. As Porfiry and Raskolnikov are discussing Raskolnikov’s philosophy, Porfiry asks him: “‘You might have also considered yourself [...] to be an ‘extraordinary’ man [...] Isn’t that so?’ [Porfiry asked him.] ‘Very possibly,’ Raskolnikov replied contemptuously” (Dostoevsky 291). Raskolnikov believes that he is part of this group of extraordinary people and therefore believes he is above the law. That is, until he commits a macabre act. Raskolnikov murders a pawnbroker and her sister, not even really knowing why he did it. Once he realizes how despicable this act was, he is horrified and decides he must protect his loved ones from the evil person he’s become. What he doesn’t realize is that by “protecting” those he loves from him, he is actually hurting them in their most desperate time of need. Regardless of Raskolnikov’s good intentions, he uses peoples’ needs and causes people unimaginable pain and suffering, then doesn’t do anything to fix it. With Raskolnikov not trying to remedy the pain he caused and leaving his family to rot, he shows a complete lack of compassion for them, making him a bad person.
He first decides he needs to distance himself from his mother, Pulkheriya Aleksandrovna, and his sister, Avdotya Romanovna (Dunya). His mother and sister arrive in St. Petersburg because Dunya is engaged to a rich man named Luzhin. However, she breaks off the engagement soon after arriving. Now, without Luzhin, Dunya and her mother are impecunious, have no place to live, and have no family besides Raskolnikov in St. Petersburg. At the same time, Raskolnikov decides that he needs to leave his mother and sister in order to protect them. Raskolnikov leaves them soon after and says:
Let me be! Leave me alone! I decided this a while ago… I’ve decided this for certain… Whatever happens to me, whether I perish or not, I want to be alone. Forget all about me… It’s better that way… Don’t inquire about me. When necessary, I’ll come myself or… I’ll summon you. Perhaps everything will resurrect! But now, while you love me, give me up… Or else, I feel that I’ll get to hate you… Farewell!                                                (Dostoevsky 344) 
Just as Luzhin leaves Dunya and Pulkheriya, Raskolnikov, the only person they have left in St. Petersburg, abandons them too. With that, Raskolnikov says: “whether I perish or not, I want to be alone,” leading his mother and sister to believe that he might die when he leaves, and would like to die alone. He says that if they try to reach out to him he feels “[he’ll] get to hate [them],” leaving his family with the thought that he doesn’t really care about them. His departing speech is sudden and invidious, in order to shock them into not wanting to be around him. He doesn’t know if he can convince them to leave him just by asking, so he decides to use harsh phrases like “I’ll get to hate you” to rebuff them. His mother, of course, is hysterical after hearing that her son might die: “‘Rodya, Rodya! Make peace with us and let’s go back to how we were before!’ cried his poor mother.” (Dostoevsky 344). She wants the loving, kind son that would write letters home weekly and always tried to help his family back. Dunya is outraged at how he’s hurting their mother: “‘Brother! What are you doing to our mother?’ [Dunya] whispered” (Dostoevsky 344). Instead of being shocked into anger, Pulkheriya and Dunya are distraught and heartbroken that Raskolnikov is leaving. Raskolnikov can see how desperately he’s hurting his family, but leaves them with this cutting speech anyway. Raskolnikov thinks he is leaving them for their own good, protecting them from the monster that he’s become, but really he’s leaving them with the thought that he is moribund, without somewhere to live, without money, and without their only remaining family. 
        A little while later, Raskolnikov sees Razumikhin, and Razumikhin tells him that Pulkheriya isn’t doing well: “‘Your mother’s been seriously ill since yesterday. She was planning to come see you; Avdotya Romanovna tried to restrain her, but she didn’t want to listen’” (Dostoevsky 487). His mother wanted to see him so badly, she couldn’t honour his wishes, even if it meant he would “grow to hate her” (Dostoevsky 344). When Dunya and Razumikhin told Pulkheriya she couldn’t see Raskolnikov, Pulkheriya said: “‘If he went out, then he must be well and he’s forgotten his mother, that means it’s improper and shameful for his mother to stand on his doorstep and beg for affection, as if for alms’” (Dostoevsky 487). His mother feels that her son has forgotten about her and that it’s “shameful” for her to want to see him. Raskolnikov has made his mother feel as though it’s wrong for her to want to see her own son, to want some affection in her time of need. This shame and grief has made his mother physically sick, and Razumikhin says “‘From your recent conduct toward your mother and sister[,] only a monster and a scoundrel, if not a madman, could behave with them the way you did’” (Dostoevsky 487). Raskolnikov feels bad and decides to go see his mother. He goes to the apartment that Razumikhin had set his mother and sister up in after Dunya left Luzhin. When Pulkheriya opens the door and sees her son, she’s overjoyed. Their reunion, however, is ephemeral and Raskolnikov quickly sits her down to tell her that he’s leaving again: “‘Mama, [...] I’m going soon.’ [...] ‘Mama, no matter what happens, no matter what you hear about me, no matter what people say about me, will you go on loving me as you do now?’” (Dostoevsky 566). Just as he’s come back into his mother’s life, he tells her that he’s leaving again. Raskolnikov razes Pulkheriya of her needs and duties as a mother - to see and care for her son. When Raskolnikov attended university in St. Petersburg, his mother couldn’t see him in person. Sending money and writing letters to him was how she continued to feel like he needed her, to feel like a mother. When he cuts her off the first time, Pulkheriya is completely heartbroken. After the first time that he left, he knows how much it hurts his mother to see him leave so suddenly, but he still goes. When Raskolnikov cuts her off for the last time, she is denied everything she needs to feel wanted and loved by her son. She has no contact, no answers as to where he’s going, and no way to get him back. She feels lost without her son, someone who gives her maternal life a purpose. On top of that, Raskolnikov tells her he’ll “grow to hate her,” a phrase that would crush a mother after years of caring for her son. 
        When Marmelodov dies, Raskolnikov takes pity on his family including Sonya, Marmelodov’s daughter from another marriage, and Raskolnikov vows to help the family however he can. Soon after Marmelodov’s death, Raskolnikov visits Sonya and tells her that her stepmother, her only real remaining family, is dying: “‘Katerina Ivanovna has consumption, a bad case; she’ll die soon,’ said Raskolnikov, falling silent and not answering Sonya’s question. ‘Oh, no, no, no!’ Sonya unconsciously seized both his hands, as if begging him not to let it happen. ‘After all, it’ll be better if she does,’ [he added]” (Dostoevsky 352). Just after her father dies, Raskolnikov nonchalantly tells Sonya that her stepmother is dying as well. When a hapless Sonya begins to cry and plead that it is not the case, he says “it’ll be better if she does [die].” As Sonya is breaking down in tears, wondering how her young step siblings will fare, Raskolnikov regards her nefariously, with that extremely hurtful statement, hurting her even more. Just a few minutes later, Raskolnikov toys with her emotions further, asking about her faith in God, one of the most important things in her life: “‘And what does God do for you in return?’ he asked [...] ‘Be quiet! Don’t ask! You’re not worthy!’ she cried suddenly, looking at him sternly and angrily. [...] ‘He does everything!’ [...] ‘That’s a way out! That’s the explanation of her way out!’ he decided, regarding her with greedy curiosity” (Dostoevsky 356). Right after she finds out that her stepmother is dying, Raskolnikov takes the other important thing in her life, her religion, and plays with it. Raskolnikov is questioning her faith in God as she’s praying to God that her stepmother won’t die. To Sonya, it is as if Raskolnikov is taking away the only thing keeping her stepmother alive. She says “Don’t ask! You’re not worthy,” because she is so hurt she doesn’t know what else to say. This indicates to him that she’s struggling to come up with an answer to his question, and believes that this is her “way out” of answering. Using this, he can agitate her further and demands she read a passage from the Bible about the Resurrection of Lazarus. As she reads, she begins to shake and he “turn[s] to her and look[s] at her with agitation: yes, that was it! She was already trembling in real, genuine, fever” (Dostoevsky 359). Sonya is trembling from fear of Raskolnikov’s verbal abuse and from grief of just learning about her dying stepmother. Raskolnikov has no empathy for Sonya’s pain and even continues to hurt her further by toying with her faith. Raskolnikov’s excitement from watching someone’s fear and devastation supports Razumikhin’s idea that he is “a monster and a scoundrel, if not a madman” (Dostoevsky 487). 
        A few weeks later, Raskolnikov admits to Sonya that he killed Alyona and Lizaveta and, using her need for a family, manipulates her and tethers her life to his. After hearing this admission of guilt, Sonya is completely distraught, now knowing that Raskolnikov, her friend, was the one who killed her friend Lizaveta. He starts to deprecate himself in order to conciliate Sonya: “‘You won’t leave me, will you, Sonya? [...] Can you possibly love such a scoundrel?’” (Dostoevsky 456). His asking her if she could ever “love such a scoundrel” is extremely manipulative. Sonya is a very benign person and when hearing someone call themselves something bad, a “scoundrel” in this case, she will want to console them and make them feel like they’re not a scoundrel. In this case, Sonya feels obligated to say “Yes,” that she can love a “scoundrel.” Raskolnikov’s plea for her to not leave him is also very manipulative. Using her name in “will you, Sonya?” inserts her being directly into the act of leaving Raskolnikov. She now feels closer to the situation so if she leaves, it is completely and directly her fault. This phrasing also uses Sonya’s kindness and not wanting to hurt anyone and manipulates her into saying that she won’t leave Raskolnikov. After he convinces Sonya to stay, Raskolnikov goes on to justify his murder to her: 
I wanted, Sonya, to kill without casuistry, to kill for myself, for myself alone! I didn’t want to lie about it, even to myself! [...] I didn’t kill to acquire the means and power to become a benefactor of humanity! [...] But how did I kill? Is that how people kill? Do people go to kill the way I did then? [...] I killed myself, not the old woman!                                                 (Dostoevsky 461)
Sonya said she won’t leave him, regardless of if she thinks he’s a bad person or not, so Raskolnikov tries to convince her that she hasn’t promised to stay with someone evil. He said he didn’t kill “to acquire the means and power,” so he didn’t kill for his own benefit. He killed “for [him]self, for [him]self alone” and didn’t lie about it. He did something bad, but in an honorable way; it was an act of integrity, as he did it just for himself and didn’t try to twist it into anything but what it was. Finally, he says “I killed myself, not the old woman,” to show that he was really the one that was suffering from this and that he’s feeling horrible and penitent. He is doing something nice for Sonya, making her feel okay about her choice to stay with Raskolnikov because he’s not a bad person, he just did a bad thing. However, the way he consoles her is manipulative and uses confusing, twisted words so that she feels obligated to agree. Raskolnikov uses Sonya’s compassion to make her feel bad for him, convincing her that he feels bad about killing Alyona and Lizaveta and that’s all that matters. He also uses her trauma from losing her father and, soon, her step mother to get her to stay with him. The poor, guilt-ridden Raskolnikov needs Sonya to stay with him and, now that she doesn’t have any family left, she needs someone too. This is how Raskolnikov permanently ropes Sonya into his life, forever tethering her to a vituperative man. 
        Raskolnikov tries to help people. He tries to protect them from the evil person that he thinks he is. However, the suffering he causes countermands the amount of good that he intended. At the beginning of Raskolnikov’s trial, his mother became very sick with an illness that was “a strange nervous ailment [...] accompanied by something like insanity” (Dostoevsky 590). Pulkheriya became obsessed with her son’s trial and story, “in public carriages or in shops, seizing upon some listener, she would lead the conversation to her son, his article, how he helped a student, [...] and so forth” (Dostoevsky 593). This obsession later killed her: “After a fretful day spent in endless fantasies, [...] she fell ill and in the morning was in a fever and delirium. [...] Two weeks later, she died” (Dostoevsky 593). His sudden departure made his mother come up with all sorts of fantasies and stories about where he might’ve gone. These fantasies ultimately dragged her deep into delirium, and she died without ever really knowing what happened to Raskolnikov. While dealing with her mother’s death, Dunya was also trying to understand the act her brother committed. The only information Dunya got about her brother was what she heard about the trial and was in the monthly letters from Sonya. Dunya found Sonya’s letters to be quite bleak, but this was because they “resulted in the fullest and most accurate picture of [her] unfortunate brother’s fate” (Dostoevsky 593). From miles away, she had to read about her brother being “constantly gloomy, [and] uncommunicative” (Dostoevsky 594). There was nothing she could do for her brother to improve his circumstances, even when “he had fallen very ill and was in the convict’s ward in the hospital” (Dostoevsky 595). Raskolnikov left Dunya just as fast as he had left his mother, and Dunya then had to support her mother in her grief and illness, while watching her brother’s situation worsen with each letter. Finally, Sonya had to keep her promise to Raskolnikov to never leave him, and had to settle in Siberia until he finished his sentence. She uprooted her whole life, moved away from her step siblings, all to support a man who was very verbally abusive to her, and console his family through the whole process. Sonya is finally completely tethered to Raskolnikov when he falls in love with her: “[she] had no doubt, that he loved her, loved her infinitely” (Dostoevsky 603). Sonya is now truly left with no way out, and must stay with Raskolnikov and support his family for the next seven years. Raskolnikov believed extraordinary people, like him, could overstep the law; he never thought about what would happen if he actually did break the law. His concept of right and wrong within him, regardless of extraordinariness, crept up when he killed Alyona and Lizaveta and he couldn’t stand this evil person he had become. In an effort to shield his loved ones from him, he ended up hurting them more than he could’ve imagined. 
A number of  cults throughout history have followed a similar construction that ultimately led to their demise. A cult usually has a leader who their followers think is a messenger for God or God-like. The cult’s members are dependent on the leader because they often promise to save the followers from some divine impending doom. This tells their followers that the leader has some power to save them from this maelstrom. Furthermore, if there really is some impending doom and the leader is the only one who can save them, they must be loyal to be saved later. In Oedipus Rex, Oedipus solves the riddle of the Sphinx so the people of Thebes crown him king and treat him as though he has some divine power which originally saved them. This structure parallels that of modern-day cult construction where Oedipus is thought of as God-like and his arrogance, solidified by his people worshipping him, is what ultimately leads to his demise. 
In the beginning of the play, Thebes is plagued by some unknown sickness. Oedipus tells the people: “You are sick to death, all of you, but sick as you are, not one is sick as I [...] my spirit grieves for this city,” (pg 162 lines 72-76). While the people of Thebes “are sick to death” with the plague, he is sick with grief. He is sick as if he were looking down upon his people, like a God, sad to see them suffering. The priest says to him: “Now we pray to you. You cannot equal the gods, your children know that bending at your altar [...] The omens were good that day [you freed us] [...] be the same man today! [...] you know you have the power” (pg 161, lines 39-66). The people are praying to him “bending at [his] altar” as if they were praying to a God’s altar. The priest says “you cannot equal the gods, your children know that,” showing that the people understand he cannot suddenly cure them, but by calling them Oedipus’ “children,” it gives him a God-like quality. Even though he “cannot equal the gods,” his “children” pray to him as if he were one. The priest then says: “you know you have the power!” This implies that the people believe Oedipus has some otherworldly power that he used to defeat the Sphinx and can now use to free the people from the plagues. They worship Oedipus as if he has some God-like power, fueling his consummate image of himself. 
We see his arrogance grow when, after Tiresias accuses him of killing Laius, he tells the people: “You pray to the gods? Let me grant your prayers. [...] If I’d been present then [when Laius was murdered] there would’ve been no mystery” (pg 171 lines 245-250). Oedipus says if he had been there when Laius was murdered, he would’ve been able to solve the case. This implies that Oedipus possesses some ability that no one else had that would’ve allowed him to solve the case. His saying “let me grant your prayers” also plays into his God-like image as if he could literally grant the peoples’ prayers. When Tiresias accuses Oedipus of killing Laius, Oedipus affronts him saying: “Blind [...] you can’t hurt me or anyone else who sees the light” (pg 181 line 425). Oedipus says he “sees the light,” which usually means enlightened or propinquitous to the Gods so someone being “blind” would be further from God. Furthermore, there are many points in which “light” means godly power, like when the chorus says “Apollo, lord of light, [...] whip your golden cord showering arrows on our enemies - shafts of power,” (pg 170 lines 231-234). When Oedipus says “you can’t hurt me,” he is implying that he is on another level in which he can’t be reached by those who aren’t enlightened. While Tiresias and Oedipus argue, Tiresias indicts Oedipus as being the cause of his and the city’s downfall. Oedipus retaliates: “The crown [they] gave to me - I never sought it, they laid it in my hands” (pg 182 lines 436-437). The people chose him to be their king after he saved them from the Sphinx and “laid [the crown] in [his] hands.” He is telling Tiresias that he is so great that he didn’t try to become king, the people chose him. Oedipus’ inflated sense of self starts to harm him and the people of Thebes as he uncovers more of the prophecy. 
After Oedipus blinds himself and is exiled, the people are still loyal to him: 
People of Thebes, [...] look on Oedipus. He solved the famous riddle with his brilliance, he rose to power, a man beyond all power. Who could behold his greatness without envy? Now what a black sea of terror has overwhelmed him. [...] Count no man happy till he dies, free of pain at last”                 
                (pg 251 lines 1678-1684). 
Even at Oedipus’ nadir, abandoning the people without a leader, still plague-striken, they still marvel at “his brilliance.” Calling him “a man beyond all power” shows that they still believe he has some otherworldly power and “count no man happy till he dies, free of pain at last.” This proclamation is like they are giving their lives to him, saying they will not be happy until he is, as if they are living their lives for him. 
        The leader with a God-like sense of self and a group of loyal followers marks the end for infamous cults as it does for Thebes. In the Peoples’ Temple, known as Jonestown, Jim Jones instructs his followers to drink poisoned kool-aid, saying they will be reincarnated. The people believed Jones, thinking he had some way to reincarnate them, and 918 members died. The people of Thebes believed in Oedipus’ power and link to the gods that even after his exile they give their lives to him. Throughout the play we hear the chorus support Oedipus’ actions, leading him to use his following in his arguments, like hissaying the crown has been handed to him. The people have lifted Oedipus onto a pedestal, worshipping his godliness, which in turn solidified Oedipus’ overweening sense of self, ultimately leading to his demise and leaving the city leaderless and plague-stricken. 
His calloused palms gripped the squeaky linoleum, slipping on the sweat that dripped from his hair. Percy locked his shoulders and elbows and once again tried to pry himself from the plasticy floor. He paused and stared at the lion painted on one of the tiles under him. Purple mane, three legs with six toes on each foot, and a little signature scribbled into the bottom corner. He slipped, pinning his arm under his chest, and breathed himself closer to the ground in defeat. 
“Let her help you,” his mom’s voice litled through the heavy, rubbery hospital air. She reached to touch his arm but she jerked back at the gruff “No” that escaped from the mass on the floor. Percy rolled over just enough to let his arm wriggle out from under him, and steadied his torso over his shoulders and over the pool of sweat on the floor. He clutched the tiles, clenching his teeth and willing his body to stand up. Bones shaking, muscles panting, nails sinking into the grout between the tiles. He collapsed on the ground. Too weak. 
***
“Hey, Percy!” Dion whipped around bodies floating through the hallway, “Perce!” Dion leaped over a girl hunched over at her locker, making sure to add a twirl at the top of his jump, and slammed his hands down on Percy’s shoulders. 
“Found an old race track up in Duvall, empty on Wednesdays,” he spat and jabbed Percy in the arm. 
“Athena’s pretty sure we’ve got a pop quiz in Shafer’s tomorrow and I can’t even spell ‘parabola.’ Gotta study.” 
Dion scoffed and whined, “Just for a little while. Not even an hour! Maybe thirty minutes!” He paused and blinked at Percy, “If we’re being honest, it’ll probably only be like fifteen minutes...at the most,” Dion stated, looking up like a child begging for candy, “Come on! I wanna take the Vulcan out!” 
“Let me check with Athena, I told her to come over and I’d give her my Bio notes for the project,” Percy said and ran his fingers through his hair. 
“Ok, let’s go to the track and then you can give her the stuff. She’s not gonna care if you’re a couple minutes late,” Dion said and angled Percy towards the door. 
“Look, dude, I already told her I’d meet her after school and I don’t wanna bail. She needs these science credits for school,” Athena walked up, slipped her hand into Percy’s and swung his hand down by her side. 
She smirked and glanced up at Dion, “Who’s bailing on what?” 
“No one’s bailing on anything,” Dion squinted and smiled wide with his teeth, “Percy and I are just gonna go to this track up in Duvall and he’ll be back in time for your stuuuu-dy date.” 
“Nah Dion, I gotta get home--” Percy started but Athena stopped him, “No, you guys go ahead. I’ll just wait at your place,” she looked up at Percy, “You said you’ll be there so you’ll be there.” 
Dion grabbed Percy by the elbow, pulling him towards the fire escape. Athena, however, pulled Percy’s hand back and down so that she could stand on her toes, then kissed him on the cheek and waved him off. 
“He’ll be at his place at 4!” Dion yelled back as he flung the door open, sounding the fire alarm.  He sprinted, Percy in hand, away from the scene of the crime. 
***
A gurney was propped up along the wall with its straps buckled tight, ready for action. A cacophony of different tv channels, silvery wheels, and beeping surged over Percy’s body and crashed down over his head. His shoulder was cemented to the floor, his hospital gown plastered to his body, and the subway tiles on the walls swirled into each other. A Make-a-wish kid was meeting Spock in the room next door and the giggling made Percy too dizzy to move. Blue-gray waves were painted over a cluster of tiles to his right. Surfers, dolphins, and shark fins were scattered through the ocean and swam out through the exit doors at the end of the hall. He shut his eyes hard and flattened his cheek into the ground.  Just stand up. 
His mother stood pressed against the wall with her arms crossed over her chest, one hand rubbing her chin, and she shifted back and forth on her heels. Her son was the perfect model for a white chalk outline. Why can’t you just stand up?
***
“Hi Athena,” Percy’s mom mumbled without looking up from her book. 
“Hi Shelly,” Athena called, softly closing the door behind her, “How’s The Girl on the Train going?” Shelly twisted around on the couch, tugged off her reading glasses and looked Athena up and down. 
“Paula Hawkins is a genius. YOU are a genius. I can’t put it down.” Athena grinned and started up the stairs. 
“Percy will be home at 4, just dropping Dion off at practice,” she called down behind her, glancing back to see Shelly quickly wave before burying her face back into her book. 
Athena dropped her backpack into the corner by the mound of textbooks that were covered almost entirely with neon yellow ink. She placed herself in Percy’s peeling leather office chair which didn’t swallow her only because she sat up straight. She flipped through Percy’s spiral notebook, scrawled with equations, and positioned her college-ruled composition notebook beside it. She was copying down his notes into her notebook when she heard a shriek. 
She flew down the stairs and saw Percy’s mother wailing and gripping her phone to her ear. Shelly, skipping breaths as she cried, stared straight through Athena before folding into a ball on the floor. Athena ran over, pressing her hands into Percy’s mother to try to stop her from convulsing, and heard a flat, crackly voice float from the phone, “We got two of ‘em, right outside uh Duvall.”
***
His hands were bloody from where his callouses had ripped. The air conditioning had dried his sweat to his head, making his hair sticky and his skin itch. His lungs begged for a break and his rib cage caved into his chest. All of his blood was in his head. His neck was cold. His nails bled. He was done. I’ve been lying here for hours.
Percy could not get his elbows to bend or his chest to leave the clutch of the linoleum. His eyelashes had tied themselves into knots to squeeze his eyes closed but a tear broke through and slipped down his cheek. It slinked down to his jaw and careened downward with a deafening plop. 
Percy collapsed into the floor and cried. He spluttered words in between bouts of sobs, clutching to his bandaged leg. He shook and squirmed around on the floor, screamed his throat dry, and clawed at the gauze that hugged his head. He threw himself into the ground, over and over, hoping to break through. He shattered, all at once, and lay completely still against the floor. His head was haloed by tiles that were painted with yellow stick-figures and flowery gardens. But the crown jewel was the bright red race car with a trail of flames behind the tires. 
The nurse stepped toward him as quietly as her mary-janes let her and lifted the body off of the floor. Percy was placed into a wheelchair and a blanket was laid over his chest. The nurse tucked his arms into his lap and placed his leg into the foothold. She slipped a pair of scissors out of her pocket and began to snip the bandage off of his stump. She glanced up at him and waited, but Percy stared numbly at the wall. He didn’t flinch, didn’t look down, as she replaced the gauze, then the elastic wrap, and then the sleeve. She stood up and walked gently behind the chair. She placed a hand on his shoulder but quickly pulled her hand back, then she wheeled him through the blinding white doors. 


________________
[1] NASDAQ
[2] Center for Strategic and International Studies
[3] Council on Foreign Relations
[4] New York Times
[5] ASEAN.org
[6] Burma, OEC
[7] Thailand, OEC
[8] Council on Foreign Relations
[9] Thailand, Encyclopædia Britannica
[10] Arakan Human Right and Development Organization
[11] Indonesia, Encyclopædia Britannica
[12] MIT Technology Review
[13] CBC Canada
[14] NPR
[15] “Psychopathological Effects of Solitary Confinement” pages 1452-1453
[16] Glowa-Kollisch, CAPS
[17] Glowa-Kollisch, CAPS
Human Progress and Post-Scarcity: The Ideal State
First, to answer the question of what an ideal state is, we need to answer the question “what is a state.” A state, in this essay, will be defined as the organizing body of a nation and/or population, that both creates and enforces rule of law, as well as manages the economic system that the nation runs on. Some people may argue that we should not have a state at all, but ignoring them, this is a very generally correct definition that fits most governments around the world. Because there are so many distinct parts of a state that can be defined and refined when asking “what is an ideal state,” let us create a general outline of the context with which this state can and should be set up in. Currently, we are living in the most technologically advanced society so far. The rate of human progress by nearly every metric is remarkably high. The world still harbors terrible places to live, and much of the world lives in poverty, but that number is decreasing every year. Every year, we produce enough food to feed ten billion people, even if 30% is wasted due to poor infrastructure. For all of the talk about overpopulation, with some modifications to our supply chain, we have enough food for the expected stable global population of ten billion. Besides food, we also produce vast quantities of every resource we could possibly want, and as we venture out into space, even more expensive materials such as gold, platinum, and copper might soon become as cheap as iron or steel. So, the problem in our world is not scarcity, and our excess of resources only grows each year. Our problem is equitable distribution. Let’s take a look at Star Trek.
The United Federation of Planets, or simply The Federation, is the governing body in Star Trek, and is remarkably similar to my idea of an ideal state. As Captain Picard said, “the acquisition of wealth is no longer the driving force in our lives… we work to better ourselves and the rest of humanity." The society that they live in is one where material need is outstripped by a desire to simply better society and humanity as a whole. The ship that they are on, the Enterprise, whose sole purpose is exploration, is backed and funded by the Federation. The Federation does this because humanity, as a whole, has moved past the simple squabbles over resources to a more enlightened society. Under The Federation, people do not go hungry, there is no conflict between members, and everyone is equal. It is certainly a utopian society, but there are some problems with it. The largest problem, in my opinion, is a single point of failure, in the form of a human president.
As Plato wrote in The Republic, Socrates states that:
“Unless,” I said, “the philosophers rule as kings or those now called kings and chiefs genuinely and adequately philosophize, and political power and philosophy coincide in the same place, while the many natures now making their way to either apart from the other are by necessity excluded, there is no rest from the ills for the cities, my dear Glaucon, nor I think for human kind, nor will the regime we have described in speech ever come forth from nature, insofar as possible, and see the light of sun.” (Plato)
I agree with this to an extent. However, the single biggest problem with this argument, that Socrates does acknowledge later on, is that single humans are fallible, and can be coerced, blackmailed, tricked, drugged, or even killed. This is why an essential part of my ideal state is the existence of an artificially intelligent Philosopher King. While our technology is not yet sufficiently advanced enough to create a human-level artificial general intelligence, we are rapidly progressing in this field, and there is no reason to not believe we will have a general artificial intelligence comparable to or exceeding our own faculties. But how exactly would this work? How would such a state be structured?
Aristotle argued for a trifecta of structures of government offices in his book Politics. He wrote that:
““Once more: there are three offices according to whose directions the highest magistrates are chosen in certain states- guardians of the law, probuli, councillors- of these, the guardians of the law are an aristocratical, the probuli an oligarchical, the council a democratical institution. Enough of the different kinds of offices.” (Aristotle)
Essentially, he wanted an aristocracy to enforce the rule of law, a democratic council to create the laws, and an oligarchy to keep the other two in check. This bears striking resemblance to our own system of offices in the United State, with an Executive, Legislative, and Judicial branch of government. While today, most people would not point to the Executive branch or the Legislative branch as an example of aristocracy or oligarchy respectively, they preform the same functions that Aristotle described, while not being truly democratically elected. People don’t vote for the President, the electors for each state do, then afterwards, each state votes. The rest of the executive branch is even less democratic; all positions are staffed by the President themselves, with little to no checks on who gets put forth. As for the Judicial branch, other thanthen a few lower-level courts, the only semblance of democracy is having to confirm justices through the Legislative branch. But the lack of democracy in these two branches aren’t necessarily a dreadful thing. If every single cabinet member of the Executive branch had to run for office, people would get tired of voting very quickly, and would most likely not participate in the democratic process after all, defeating the whole purpose. Aristotle recognizes this, and calls for these three to be combined into a state of “polity”:
“Now in most states the form called polity exists, for the fusion goes no further than the attempt to unite the freedom of the poor and the wealth of the rich, who commonly take the place of the noble. But as there are three grounds on which men claim an equal share in the government, freedom, wealth, and virtue (for the fourth or good birth is the result of the two last, being only ancient wealth and virtue), it is clear that the admixture of the two elements, that is to say, of the rich and poor, is to be called a polity or constitutional government; and the union of the three is to be called aristocracy or the government of the best, and more than any other form of government, except the true and ideal, has a right to this name.” (Aristotle)
In my ideal society, there would be three branches of government, much like the US government, with a Senate, a Supreme Court, and most notably, The President, a single ruler fulfilling the role of the aristocracy, or the Executive branch in the US. However, this single ruler would not be human, but instead would be replaced with an above-human level artificial general intelligence (AGI). Let’s inspect each branch of government.
First, the Senate. The Senate would be comprised of democratically elected members of the populous, striving for each senator to have an equal number of constituents, with elections held once every five years, based on a ranked choice voting system. Term limits would be 4 terms, as to both encourage change, but also not restrict each senator from working on long-term projects that they could reap the rewards of. The Senate would have the power to create, draft, and pass legislation, holding the largest chunk of power of the government, including but not limited to the power to declare war, raise and lower taxes, set the national budget, and change economic policies such as tariffs and import/export duties. This is quite similar to the United States congress, except for the lack of a partition between the House of Representatives and the Senate, which are both combined and made to be more representative in this ideal state. Cicero would certainly agree that this would be vital to the formation of a good state, as he wrote in On the Republic:
“…for a king being one, is more like a master; but where many good men are at the head of affairs in a republic, nothing can be more happily constituted.” (Cicero)
As he clearly states, having many good men is better then simply one good man, as a single good mand could act like a master. Of course, this ideal state is a combination of both single and multiple governance, but the senate, in this society, would play an immense role in the functioning of the state. Not only that, but Cicero also wrote that:
“For whether under a just and wise king, or chosen eminent citizens, or the people themselves, although this last is least to be approved of, setting aside the irregularities occasioned by the bad passions of some men, any one may see that a steady government might be preserved.” (Cicero)
He points to the three systems of government - aristocracy, oligarchy, and democracy - that this ideal state, as well as the United States, combines into one. This would no doubt be seen as a step in the right direction, as Cicero would see a balancing of the three a step towards the “steady government” that he wanted.
Second, the Supreme Court. This is the most similar to the United States, as it would function in almost exactly the same manner. It would hold the power to strike down laws and set precedent sident, as well as acting as the high court to appeal to. The number of Justices would be extended to twenty-one, in order to be able to be more representative of the population but would stay almost entirely the same.
Third, the President. A single office comprised of a single entity, an AGI. AGIs are defined as artificial intelligences that are able to learn, understand, and solve any problem or task that a human might be able to solve. This includes the ability to reason, to judge while missing information, to effectively communicate with humans in a natural and logical manner, to empathize and understand human emotion, to plan and execute on plans, and most importantly, to learn from previous mistakes. Presently, we are not able to create such an intelligence. However, as the rate of progress in all aspects of technology continues to increase, it would be close-minded to deny the eventuality of AGIs. Generative Pre-trained Transformer 2, or GPT-2, is a 1.5 billion parameter (roughly akin to neurons) artificial intelligence released in 2019 and was a revolution in terms of natural language processing, being ten times larger than anything before it. Yet, only two years later, GPT-3 was released, and contained 175 billion parameters, with text generated being nearly indistinguishable from human-made text. This type of exponential rate of growth, fueled by advances in both GPU compute technology as well as vast refinements to neural network training and generation point towards a clear convergence point: the not-so-distant AGI reckoning. With this in mind, the President would be an eternal leader, a nearly perfect leader, one who would never be affected by emotion or humanly fears and desires, but only by a calling to increase prosperity and create peace throughout the world. Plato would agree with this idea quite vigorously, as he says in The Republic:
“There will be discovered to be some natures who ought to study philosophy and to be leaders in the State; and others who are not born to be philosophers, and are meant to be followers rather than leaders.” (Plato)
He says, quite clearly here, that some are born to be philosophers and leaders, and some are born to be followers. While this might be a pessimistic view of the human race, we can sweep all concerns aside of who is born to be the leader by creating the leader. A leader created to be a leader, in Plato’s mind, would almost certainly be the best option.
Now, if we combine the post-scarcity state akin to Star Trek with the idea of an eternal AGI President, the ideal state emerges. One where the state is firmly in the hands of the people, in the form of a strongly democratic senate, all while being under the careful guidance of a super-intelligent AGI. Excess production would not go to a select few elites, but would be reinvested in the population, to ensure that no one, no matter their history, goes hungry or is without shelter. In a world where there are more houses than homeless people in the richest nation on earth, it is not hard to imagine such a state being not only within the bounds of reality, but within reach. However, there is still the question of how this ideal state can be achieved, if at all.
Unfortunately, to achieve this ideal state, we will need two things: patience and an overall societal shift. Patience is needed in order to let the necessary technologies that are needed for AGIs to progress to the point of existence, then refinement, and finally acceptance into everyday life. While this can be sped up by increasing funding to various development and scientific programs, the amount of capital that is already invested in all of the various technologies both directly and indirectly connected to the attainment of such AGIs is incomprehensibly gargantuan, as the world has and continues to rapidly shift toward the digitization of everything. The society shift, then, is the hard part. This governing system would work best first in some small, moderately rich, already democratic nation with a leftist populace that is willing to try bold, innovative technology to further humanity. Two nations that come to mind are Taiwan and Iceland. Scoring a 9.58 and 10 respectively on Electoral Process and Pluralism in the 2018 Democracy Index, both nations have embraced technology in diverse ways, and both are small enough that such a shift might be possible. It is entirely plausible that one of these nations, or others similar to them, might, within the next 10-20 years, start employing the help of advanced neural networks to aid in complex economic and governmental systems, as the current forms of neural networks are perfectly suited to such jobs. Taiwan particularly, with corporations such as TSMC, the world’s largest dedicated semiconductor foundry, is in a perfect position to be on the bleeding edge of technology in the world. I cannot wait to see what the future brings, and while it might seem dark at times, my optimism for the potential of the world holds strong.
From Ancient Greece to modern titles today, fate, it seems, always has its hand in the outcomes of people’s lives. In The Tragical History of the Life and Death of Doctor Faustus  by Christopher Marlowe, Faustus too grapples with fate and free will. After he makes a deal with the devil, his life starts to spiral downwards, into a macabre maelstrom of unkind fate. In this play, Faustus has no free will;, he is simply subject to whatever Fate consigns to him. He constantly alleges that he has no control over his life. He and the Chorus refer to pre-Christian ideas of fate over the Christian ideas of free will, in accordance with the anti-church sentiment at the time. And finally, his hapless fortune is discussed much by the Chorus, putting the blame not on his choices, but on Fate itself.
In this play, Faustus constantly refers to how he has no control over his life. He feels that rather than being in control of himself and his life, as Christianity might tell him is correct, he instead is reliant on simple fate - good or bad luck - to steer him through his life. Faustus stated that “Thy fatal time doth draw to final end;” (Marlowe, Page 62, Line 64), which is a double meaning. First, it delineates that his time of death draws ever closer, which may be garnered from his general state of affairs. However, the second meaning is much more important. The origin of the word “fatal” is the old French word “fatal”, meaning “decreed by fate,” or “fraught with fate.” What Faustus is actually articulating with this quote is that “Fate decrees that I will come to an end.” Not simply his bad choices leading to death, but Fate itself forcing this upon him. If Faustus would have had free will, he would not decree it be “fatal time” which draws to an end;, it would instead be his own time that draws to an end. The transfer of ownership of time is an important delineation that specifically makes it so that he does not control his own time, but rather rides the waves that Fate creates. Another instance of Faustus’s blaming Fate instead of himself is when he says “You stars that reigned at my nativity/Whose influence hath allotted death and hell,” (Marlowe, Page 74, Line 118). First, he says “You stars,” referring to God or gods above him, referencing more of a pagan or Greek idea of divinity then the Christian one of his time. Fate is much more important thanthen choice in Greek mythology, which leads into the next part, where he says “influFence hath allotted.” Not “influenced me to do something” or “influenced my choices,” but “influenced hath allotted.” By saying “allotted,” he is remarking that this was the will of “You stars,” and that it would come to pass, no matter his own choices or actions. The “death and hell” were not optional;, they were very specifically allotted to him by some higher power, and he could not have escaped it even if he had tried. This is also substantiated when he says “What will be, shall be? Divinity, adieu!” (Marlowe, Page 12, Line 62).  He essentially just gives up, stating that whatever will happen will just happen, not much you can do about it. This mostly just reinforces the idea from the previous two quotes, the idea that Fate is the determining factor in Fautus’s life, not himself.
Faustus also refers to pre-Christian ideas of fate over the Christian ideas of free will. This is demonstrated partially in the second quote, but is clearly stated when he says “For he confounds hell in Elysium/His ghost be with the old philosophers!” (Marlowe, Page 24, Line 78). Elysium is not a Christian place or idea;, instead, it is the heavenly part of Hades, or the underworld, in Greek mythology. This was the place that the most revered and honorable would to after they had died; it was a place of luxury and paradise. He next backs this reference up by saying “with the old philosophers,” referring to the Ancient Greek philosophers such as Aristotle, Plato, and Socrates. This reference highlights the rejection of contemporary Christian ideas at the time; by talking about Elysium and the “old philosophers” Faustus is showing that those ideas, and the ideas of Fate, might still be true, and that the current Christian ideas might not be. Faustus’ real reference to the pre-Christian idea of Fate occursis when he says “Short’ning my days and thread of vital life,” (Marlowe, Page 60, Line 3). HereIn this quote, Faustus specifically talks about the “thread of vital life,” which directly refers to the concept of the Fates in Ancient Greek mythology, where the three Fates spin the loom of life, with each person represented by a thread. In this idea of Fate and Fates, people have no free will and ultimately are controlled by the Fates, who decide what to do with each thread, and when to eventually cut it, ending that person’s life. Faustus talks about the “thread of vital life” because he knows that he has no free will, and that nothing cancould change his predetermined fate. This contrasts quite heavily with the more Christian ideas that you alone decide your fate, and that people do have free will. Overall, this is a rejection of the more normal Christian ideas of the time and a reference to the older ideas of Fate.
The Chorus, a sort of narrator or voice of the author, also makes several references to hism having a bad fortune. Very Eearly in the play, the Chorus says “The form of Faustus' fortunes, good or bad:” (Marlowe, Page 7, Line 8). The Chorus is very clear in this statement: Faustus has fortunes, not choices. If the Chorus were to have declared Faustus to have choices, they it would have said “The form of Faustus' choices, good or bad:”. But it didn’t, and in this omission of “choices” and the addition of “fortunes,” the Chorus is clearly saying that Faustus’ life events are not because of his own free will;, they are because of his good or bad fortunes, predetermined by some higher power. Then, on the very last page of the play, the Chorus once again refers to the fortune of Faustus by saying “Whose fiendful fortune may exhort the wise” (Marlowe, Page 76, Line 5). This exhortationquote references talks about Faustus’ bad fortune, once more directly saying that Faustus hasd fortunes, not choices, and that he would have ended up this way regardless of how he tried to act. Now, this quote also tries to warn or “exhort” “the wise” to be wary of this unfortunate path, which might lead to the idea that he could have controlled this. However, this simply is just the Chorus being hyperbolic, as the word “exhort” has a very strong connotation, much more so then the word “warn” or “urge.” Just as the Chorus said at the beginning, this was his fate, not his will.
The lesson to keep in mind is that in Doctor Faustus, free will is not a significant factor in the story of Faustus’ life. Only his fortunes, his good or bad luck, predetermined by some higher power, truly matter in the overall storyline. Not only that, but just as Protestant revolution had challenged the ideas of the Catholic church, Faustus challenges the ideas of Christianity as a whole, reverting at times to more Ancient Greek ideas of life and Fate, specifically the idea that there are threads of fate, each one controlling the outcome of a person’s life. To suggest that the current ideas of Christanity were incorrect would have been blasphemy at the time, but the ideas are still hidden away in this play. Also the Chorus, the sort of narrator or voice of the author who explains things to the reader or audience, agrees with the ideas of fortune, referring two it once at the beginning of the play, and once at the end. All put together, Doctor Faustus is not a play about a series of bad decisions and their consequences, but about cruel higher powers decreeing the fate of mortals.
The precious water was not wasted as it was poured over the hull of the Toyota. Precious few were left, after all, so the use of precious resources could be justified. As the water ran down the side, a cloth caught it before it could drip to the ground and smeared it across the side. Dirt and debris gave way to a dull luster of cherry red, preserved over the years. He ran his hand over the side, feeling the little bumps and grooves in the paint. Next came the wax: a plastic spray bottle, similarly red, half full. He pulled it out, careful not to squeeze the brittle plastic too hard, which was already patched up with tape. Spraying gingerly, the same cloth now polished the wax on the car, giving it a sheen, one that it hadn’t had in months. Finally, she stepped back to admire their handiwork.
“With any luck, I’ll sell through the whole trailer halfway through the week, and I might even get to relax a bit.”
He rolled his eyes and grimaced slightly. Nola jumped off the top of the trailer and landed squarely in front of him.
“Yeah-fucking-right. You’ll just find something else that’ll take up your time, and before you know it, it’ll be market time again and you’ll have nothing to show for it,” she said. Gan shrugged, and turned back to the truck.
“Well, it’s the fourteenth- fifteenth? time we’ve gone back to this market, and every year, we still manage to have a full trailer to sell. Hey, if no shit goes down this time, no goddamn raiders or any other dickheads show up, we’ll set our personal record of years not robbed blind,” Nola mused.
“Hey, we’re still lucky none were the cold-hearted type. Like, we still had our truck, even if our trailer had been so brutally taken from us.”
“SO brutally,” she agreed. “You can still see the scratch marks, look.” Nola pointed to the back of the truck, where the wax had been spread thinner and a few deep, yet smooth, grooves were still visible.
“Hey, the point is, it was stolen. Jesus christ, I’m just tryin’-”
“Ok, ok, ok. We were lucky, that’s the end of that. Hey, hey, at least we got shot down near Yosemite last time. Could’ve gone worse, been near Death Valley or something. No way we would’ve made it out there before nightfall. Nobody around for miles. Point it, we’re doing good right now, let’s keep it goin’.”
“Sure.”
 
The sun set on the horizon over the market, a brilliant crimson orb, slowly being eclipsed by the overwhelming night sky. As stars shone overhead, they relaxed in the empty trailer. Faint smiles were on both of their faces as Nola counted up the money from the day.
“It’s always a crazy feeling, isn’t it?”
“What?” Nola didn’t glance up from the bundle of money in her hand, which she was very precisely tallying up on an old clipboard.
“I mean, it’s always weird being in here after we sell everything, that’s all. Feels... wrong, almost. Empty feeling. Like something’s off.” He fiddled with the pendant on his necklace as he talked, a small silvery triple moon pendant, smooth to the touch from years of wear.
“Yeah, sure. I mean personally, it’s a great feeling for me. We got cash! And honestly, we didn’t slack off this year at all.” She turned to face him, pausing her pinpointed counting regime. “We ended up with the trailer being jam-packed, and ever since that last Californian civil war in what, 2393? it’s just been even harder to find sellable goods. That northern faction scrap detail just picked though everything, and now we have to go further and further each year into LA just to make the same as last year. So having this trailer be empty, and this cash being in my hand? I’m fucking relieved.” Nola turned back to her clipboard and money and resumed counting.
“Well, but it’s like, what’s the point? Is there anything more? Is there a reason? Yeah, we’ll get some nicer things, but why?”
“Why does the sun set and come up every day? You should know about that.” She pointed to his pendant.
“What the hell do you mean? This isn’t the sun, it’s the moon cycle!”
“Same difference. The point is, whether you’re talking about the sun or the moon, they always follow a cycle because that’s what they gotta do. Actually,” she said as she leaned forwards, “it reminds me of a story I heard once. It’s said that the Sun and his sister, the Moon, once lived together in the East. They would go out hunting together quite often. But one time, the Sun went hunting out by himself, the Moon began to worry. She was so worried that she set out to search for him for 20 day straight. But at the end of those 20 days, she was so exhausted and tired that she fell over and slept for four days straight. But when she awoke, she was determined to find her brother again. So she keeps looking for her brother, right up until this day.” Nola sat back, a satisfied expression on his face. “And that’s just that.”
“That’s all? Why does she keep chasing him? He’s clearly not coming back.”
“Well, that’s just how it goes, I suppose. It’s a cycle, like everything.”
“But what if I don’t want to be in a cycle? What if I want to do more? Explore beyond the city and the wastelands?”
Nola sighed. Rubbing the side of her face with her palm, wearily she simply said, “I don’t know.”
 
Water on the Toyoda. Clean. Wax. Polish. Done.
“Trailer’s all full up,” said Gan. Nola, not looking up from her scruffy notepad, grunted affirmatively back at him.
“Good goods this year. We spent too much on fuel though. Keep having to go farther and farther out each year. But what can you do?”
 When they eventually arrive at the marketplace, they set up.
“Well, we’re all sold out now. Looks weird being empty!”
They lie in the empty trailer, tired.
“What else could we do other than just surviving?” Gan pondered. Nola looked over.
“I don’t know. Maybe life is just surviving, and nothing more. It’s dangerous to do much more, anyways, so you better keep on just living,” Nola said. She lay back down and went to sleep. Gan shook his head, but still let the night wash over him and bring him to sleep.
 
The truck trundled along the harsh Californian desert. In the driver’s seat, Nola eyed the speedometer. Sixty-six miles per hour. Sixty-seven. Sixty-eight. Sixty-seven.
“You know, staring at the speed won’t make it go any faster,” Gan said drily. “In fact, you might even make it go slower, if you crash the goddamn truck because you’re distracted looking at numbers.”
Nola jolted up and looked straight ahead.
“Sorry, I’ve just been a bit off today. This year there’s even less sellable scrap, and I was just wondering when we gonna run out. I mean, well, that’s why we’re here.” She chuckled slightly, shaking her head.
“Never wanna get stuck at death valley at night-” Nola started to say when suddenly, like a mountain of flame, the front of the car blew apart. Exactly three seconds later, a large boom in the distance sounded.
“SHIT! SHIT! SHIT!” Gan frantically repeated. He quickly opened the door of the truck and rolled out, tumbling over and over again, until he came to a stop. Right as he did, the back right wheel of the car disintegrated into pieces, and a large boom sounded yet again, three seconds later. Gan watched as the glistening red Toyota pickup truck, now blown apart in both the front and the back, started to turn to the right and slow down. Yet as the crippled Toyota limped along, Gan heard several engines roar to life behind him. A semi-truck, surrounded by three small pickups, emerged from behind a small hill, almost invisible to the naked eye. They rushed past him, with the semi cutting the Toyota off and slowly braking, slowing both trucks down. Somehow, through all of it, the trailer had managed to stay attached, and similarly was slowed to a halt by the larger semi-truck. Gan watched, horror on his face, as the raiders jumped off the truck and started loading the semi up with everything in the trailer. But his attention turned to the Toyota quickly, as one of the raiders opened the driver side door and jumped backwards as a body rolled out.
“Nola. No!” Gan whispered to himself. He glanced around, but thankfully, no one was near enough to hear him. Stifling his tears, he slowly turned around and crawled until he reached a small sand dune he could hide behind. He kept crying long past the raiders had left.
When night fell, he trudged back to the wreckage of the truck, fearing to see the worst. As he approached, he saw her body under the truck. Holding back tears, he slowly approached the ruined hull. The door had come off completely, and he could now clearly see her whole body laying on the hard desert ground. Kneeling down, he felt for a pulse, a sign of life. But he only felt the hot sun on his fingers. A gut-wrenching spike of anguish ran through his stomach, slowly making its way up through his throat, burning as it went, to his eyes. But then. The distinctive sound of water droplets commanded his attention. He quickly looked up, and he immediately saw the source: the aging water jug that sat behind the passenger seat. It was full of bullet holes, yet empty of the only important substance. Water. His face turned from anguish and despair to fear and dread. He knew where they were. Valle de la Muerte. No one, no help. Gan went around to the back of the trailer, glanced around for a moment, spotted something, and grabbed it. Coming back to the front, he drove the shovel he had retrieved into the soft sand and started digging. Again and again, he drove the shovel into the sand, each motion working towards the physical reality of something he didn’t want to think about. Finally, hours later, Nola’s grave was done. He lifted her body in his arms and placed her gently six feet down. On top of her forehead, he put his pendant, the moons taunting him. Once the sand was replaced, and the hole was flat sand once again, he left. He walked unnaturally briskly east, a rucksack of supplies, with what little water he had left, on his back. On his necklace was a new pendant: a single bullet collected from the ruins of the truck. Gan glanced over his shoulder at the wreckage once again and patted his new pendant.
“I’m going to do something, Nola. You’ll see.”
Fungicure is often used to kill unwanted yeast. However, yeast have been shown to build up resistance to this chemical. Over multiple different populations, the resistance level can vary significantly. The purpose of this experiment was to determine what strain of yeast was the most resistant to fungicure. Our variables were the percentage increase in each strain of yeast from a plate without fungicure and a plate with fungicure. To test which strain of yeast was the most resistant to fungicure, we acquired eight differently colored strains of yeast, and set up a bracket style single-elimination tournament. We would pit the two yeast strains against each other on two plates: one with and one without fungicure. The yeast strain with the largest increase in percentage from the non-fungicure to the fungicure was then selected to move on to the next round. After the first two rounds, the strains of yellow and white had advanced to the final round, with both of them having shown increases from non-fungicure to fungicure, demonstrating an increased resistance to fungicure. Yellow had a higher population on both plates, white’s population increased when fungicure was introduced. This means that white was better adapted to surviving in fungicure, and the population differences were only due to initial factors. All of this shows that different strains of yeast can have different resistance levels to fungicure.
The defining characteristic from the 70s through to the 90s is Neoliberalism, and the deregulation that follows. It all commenced with the Carter administration and the 1970 oil crisis. These two events laid the foundation for modern day neoliberalism, and the current political climate of the United States.
The 1970 oil crisis caused the entire world to realize that oil was not an infinite resource, and that it was terrifyingly easy for a single country to cut off a large percentage of the global supply. While most of the world went into an economic recession, several companies discovered much more efficient ways to produce and use oil. This stimulated the economy in a select few areas in the United States, which was said to p    rove the ingenuity of the free market, and that it would always find a way around any crisis.
The Carter administration had to deal with stagflation, a period where inflation was high and economic growth was stagnant. In an attempt to combat this, Carter deregulated several industries, such as the trucking industry and the airline industry. However, he was still not able to fix the problem, and a recession set him up for defeat against Ronald Reagan, who campaigned on ideas of more conservative spending and neoliberal policies.
Ronald Reagan made perhaps the biggest contribution to neoliberalism out of all of the presidents from the 70s to the 90s. One of the largest things that he did was cut income tax by 25% in 1981, almost across the board for all Americans. While America still has high tax rates, they are quite low on the high end of the income scale, especially when compared to other first world countries. This low tax rate created the mentality we still have today, where tax cuts are almost universally liked and tax raises are met with failed reelection campaigns. 
The Clinton administration, while not as conservative as some previous administrations, quite certainly helped to advance free market neoliberalism. Major points were continuation of deregulation, several large cuts to welfare, and the much criticized NAFTA, which is almost universally disliked among many modern day progressive politicians. Not only did NAFTA repeal article 27 of the Mexican Constitution, which had protected indiginous communities from wealthy landowners buying up their native lands, NAFTA also further lowered overall taxes and tariffs on goods moving around North America. The resurgence of these policies only further increased the public’s perception of neoliberalism as the way that things should be, and the perception of the necessity of laissez-faire capitalism.
In essence, the time period the 70s through the 90s was a time marked by a resurgence of economic liberalization and privatization of the world, especially in the Americas. The shift to neoliberalism and to the idea that freedom for all people also means freedom for all corporations created the monopolistic, oligarchic style companies that still preside over the US today. Instead of moving to socialized healthcare and other welfare systems, the United States rejected these ideas as too close to the communism they spent so long fighting. Even as countries in Europe were providing these services with resounding approval, the United States still maintained that true freedom looked like the ability to choose which company can sell you your basic human rights. 
That is the core of why so many people thought that the 90s were the best years yet for the United States, why the End of History touted modern liberalism as the ideological peak of humanity. People truly believed that the more laissez-faire a market was, the more freedom both the companies and the consumers had. Of course, this did not spell the end of history, nor did it reach the ideological peak of humanity. However, people viewed it as the best the United States has ever been, and it will forever live on in the Independence Day of yesterday and the Stranger Things of today.
May it please the court, counsel, ladies, gentlemen, and others of the jury.
When this case started, we established that this was a case of words, and specifically  how those words affected the efficacy of the text at hand. The evidence brought before you is as follows.
    It has been shown that Truman Capote likes to embellish his writing. But does that necessarily make him biased? You might think that using a thesaurus doesn’t bias your text. Well, that changes when you’re writing the words of others. Without audio recordings to go on for most scenes, Capote had to essentially fabricate all the dialogue between characters. Considering the bias shown in Truman Capote's In Cold Blood, it is too biased to be considered non-fiction.
 Bias can manifest itself through dialogue between characters. Once, Perry and Dick are having an argument. Perry is carping on Dick, saying things such as “Are you sure? Sure you even asked?”, as Dick fires back with “O.K., sugar - whatever you say,” (46). It doesn’t even matter if this argument ever took place or not. Capote clearly is biased towards Perry, making him out to be the better one in this argument, and putting Dick in a bad light as the annoying, wimpy one. Not that long after, Dick says “You told me.” However, the next sentence is “Dick’s tone was curt,” (49). Capote did not need to put that phrase there. Dick is already viewed as more rude and blunt, and what he just said isn’t exactly the nicest thing ever. But by adding that extra bit of description, by adding the word “curt”, Capote reinforces the idea of Dick as the rude one of the two. One last way Dick is reinforced as the bad one of the two is when Perry says “Oh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Him. And Dick always said he’d be too scared. Ha!” (236). Perry is referencing the murder, and laughing at the thought of Dick shying away from it. Capote paints Dick with a murderous light, and even though Dick said he would be too scared, Capote makes sure that Perry tells the audience Dick’s real intentions.
    Bias can also show itself through the way that words are used, and what diction is used in particular. Capote uses diction to his advantage throughout the book, and uses it to avidly shape how particular characters are shown. Capote writes about Mr. Clutter “outlining his schemes for future financial betterment,” (47 part 1), even though all Mr. Clutter was doing was signing his insurance policy. By simply using the word “scheming” in the sentence, Capote manages to set the audience’s perception of him to someone who schemes away at night, deviously trying to make that extra dollar. Signing an insurance policy is usually a benign thing, but Capote makes it into something much bigger to suit his own view of who the characters are. The words “future financial betterment” also convey hints of selfishness, as we know that Mr. Clutter is already rich, and doesn’t necessarily need the money.  Another example is when Capote is describing the tone of the town after the murders. He claims that everyone started to distrust each other, for multiple reasons. He argued that “[The] reason, the simplest, the ugliest, was that this hitherto peaceful congregation of neighbors had to endure the unique experience of distrusting each other… they believed the murderer to be among themselves.” (88). First, the three words used in the beginning of the sentence: “simplest”, “ugliest”, and “hitherto”. They all are used very specifically by Capote to paint the germane picture he wants. The use of the word simplest primes the reader to think that what follows it will be easy to understand, and straightforward. He does this so that the reader assumes whatever he says next is true. And what he says next is very poignet. He describes the mutual feeling among the neighbors as the “ugliest,” and says that it’s only been “peaceful” “hitherto.” We don’t know whether or not it actually was peaceful, but there is an obvious bias to paint the neighbors as paranoid and aggressive. Finally, the last example of Capote’s bias in diction is when Perry (Smith) is interviewed by Dewey, who “exulted in Smith’s silence, for an innocent man would ask who was the witness, and who were these Clutters…” (226). Before this, we do not see Dewey as an especially nefarious or vindictive person, but Capote manages to twist the audience's idea of him using simply one word: “exulted.” Not “noticed,” for that would mean that Dewey simply took note of this to use later in trial. Not “grinned,” because that would not properly convince the audience of Dewey’s supposed grudge. No, instead Dewey “exultes” when Perry slips up and hesitates. Capote manages to convince the audience of an entire personality in a single word. After all, every single word counts.
Yet another way Capote showed bias in his writing was through descriptions and thoughts of individual characters. There is no way he could have ever truly known what people were thinking or who they were, but he very intentionally included several detailed sections on various characters and what they were thinking. At one point, Capote specifies what he thought was going in Perry’s head, creating the question  “who had ever given a damn about him? His father?” (45). Capote gives us this very poignant thought in the mind of one of the main characters in the story, and we do not know whether or not it was true in the slightest. By adding some descriptions of unknown verifiability, Capote biases the audience with a shade of untruths. He writes that “he noticed in her tone an uncharacteristic anxiety” (87), stating that she was usually not anxious, but was in this example. Using the word “uncharacteristic” make sure that the audience knows she usually isn’t like this, but is right now. It summarily shows that something big is going on in the background, because there would need to be a large event to change a character’s emotional state. It defines her character as more cool headed, and all in a few words. Capote, again, does not know this, but chooses to bias it anyways to make it a better story to read. There is also the distortion of facts, which Capote regularly uses to his advantage.  At one point, he writes “It had begun a long time ago - eleven years ago, in the autumn of 1948, when Wells was nineteen.” (160). Capote purposefully includes the phrase “a long time ago” in conjunction with “eleven years ago.” He could have put just “eleven years ago” in the book, and portrayed the same information just as well. However, he did not, and made sure to include the fact that eleven years ago was “a long time ago.” He does this, again, to be in control of how the reader interprets the story, and what parts they do.
Despite all that, the defense try to substantiate that bias is not able to be shown without knowing the true series of events. If you cannot know what actually happened, then how can you detect when someone is trying to skew events to suit their own purposes? One example is when Capote is setting up the Clutters as characters, and he writes “‘...why were you flirting with Jerry Roth’” Like Bobby, Jerry Roth was a school basketball star. ‘Last night? Good grief, I wasn’t flirting.’” He tries to develop the characters, and because he was not there for the conversation - if it even ever took place - he has to make up all the dialogue for it. Capote cannot bias the storyline because he doesn’t have tenable evidence for what the exact storyline was. Another time that Capote has to make up large parts of the story is when Dick and Perry “left the highway, sped through a deserted Holcomb, and crossed the Santa Fe tracks.” (57) “Sped through” and “deserted” both cannot be verified, with different implications for both. “Sped through” implies that Dick and Perry both were in a hurry, and were going so quickly that their perception of Halcomb was that it was “deserted.” Again, though, Capote tells us this but has no evidence to back it up, simply because there is no evidence for it. Dick and Perry might have been driving at 20 miles per hour the whole time, and had stopped in the bustling town of Halcomb for a quick meal. With no way to verify it, Capote might as well be writing a book fit for the YA section of the library, temporizing for the sake of more words on the page. Finally, one last character who we only know through lens of Capote is Mrs. Johnson, the brother of Perry. When questioned by the cops, she says “I haven’t seen Perry in four years. Or heard from him since he was paroled.” (181) The audience gets more information from this, namely that Perry was in prison, and didn’t bother to visit or call his sister when he got out. It makes him look like a worse person, and someone who is harder to sympathize with. Capote purposefully does this, and it is at his own discretion to do so. He is not a courtroom stenographer, but a novelist trying to tell a good story. He tells the audience what they want to hear, what he thinks will make an interesting read. 
But by writing a story at all, biases will slip through, no matter what. It doesn’t matter whether the facts as he presents them are true; it matters only that he presents them through a story, which only can be biased. The choice is clear. We know that there is bias in the story, and we know it is because of Truman Capote. If a courtroom stenographer started to embellish their case files, and change up the dialogue between the people in the courtroom, they would be fired immediately. Their work would be declared unsound and not suitable for use, because of the biases they would impose on the real narrative. Truman Capote, if his work were considered nonfiction, would be equivalent to that stenographer. You cannot have all the facts of a case be sound and just while also having all of them fed through the biases of another person.
We have proved that there is bias in the novel that Truman Capote wrote. That is all we need in order to overtly declare his work fiction, and quickly dispute any other side. If biases exist, the whole truth cannot do so. Thank you.
Paul Rusesabagina’s An Ordinary Man follows the story of Rusesabagina as he tries to save as many people as he can during the Rwandan genocide. He accomplishes this by using the luxury hotel that he manages as a temporary refugee camp for the Tutsi (and Tutsi sympathizers), an oppressed and targeted ethnic group. This book can provide many lessons to us, and help to guide us in our everyday lives. It essentially boils down to this: kindness and favors are the most powerful tools. Be kind to others, and they will repay you in kind.
    The most important example in the book of kindness is Rusesabagina’s black book. In this book, which he has kept for years, is a list of phone numbers and names of people who might owe him a favor. Throughout the entire book, Rusesabagina uses this to save hundreds of lives. The people in the black book are not necessarily good or righteous people. Some of them are murderers or propagators of genocide, but Rusesabagina is not diswayed from calling them to cash in the favors. At one point, the hotel had run out of water, and had to ration it very carefully. Rusesabagina called up a local militia leader, one who had killed or been responsible for the deaths of hundreds. Rusesabagina cashed in his favor, and the seemingly evil militia leader gladly obliged, bringing a truckload of water to fill up the swimming pool, which they had been using as a makeshift water tank. Even when people are at their worst, when they are by all means “bad people”, they still will tend to feel some obligation to others that have been kind to them.
    Another example of kindness is when the goverment orders an army general to kill everyone in the hotel, no exceptions. The general comes to the hotel, and tells Rusesabagina what must happen. Obviously, Rusesabagina is quite terrified of what will happen, and quickly asks the general if he would like to talk over some nice liquor. The general grudgingly obliges, and they begin to talk. The general, at first, is very stubborn and slightly apologetic, telling Rusesabagina that he is just following orders. Rusesabagina tries to talk reason into the general, but it does not work. Then he changes tactics. Rusesabagina starts to tell the general that the task of massacring the hotel is something far beneath his level. He eventually convinces the general to believe that it is not worth his time, and that it was an insult from the goverment to send him to do their dirty work. While devious, Rusesabagina still played up to the ego of the general, and stroked it accordingly. Being kind instead of confrontational saved him and the hotel from being wiped out. Even if it was not entirely genuine, positive feedback is more likely to change a person’s stance on an issue then reason or confrontation.
    One final example of the power of kindness is slightly different. Just before the genocide, the radio station RTLM opened up, and quickly became the most popular radio station in Rwanda. It also contributed significantly to the hatred of the Tutsi group. How could such a hateful radio station be so popular? Well, it started out as just a music station, playing upbeat, fun music from the congo. People liked it, and kept it on all the time. Slowly, however, more and more op-eds and guest speakers started to talk on air and spread hate. However, people felt like they knew this radio station from all the times it had played music that they wanted, and kept it on to listen to both. Kindness from the station kept people listening even when it only was broadcasting hate. Kindness is not just a tool for the righteous; it can be used by anyone.
    From this book we can learn to be kind and be wary of those who are kind to you, if you have reason to suspect they are not entirely genuine. Kindness and favours are powerful tools used by almost everyone, and people need to know that. However, being kind to people is still the single best thing you can do in your life. People will feel more inclined to be kind back, and everyone wins. Rusesabagina only was able to save all of the people in his hotel because of kindness. Even though most people are not having to shelter hundreds in a genocide, they can still learn from him, and how he used kindness.
Morals and values are often best communicated through the people that hold them. Oral storytelling has always been an important tenet of Native American culture, and their values are often told through this method. Indian Legends of the Pacific Northwest compiles dozens of these stories, and presents them as closely as possible to how they were originally told. One of these stories focuses on a young, greedy man. He is even so greedy that he goes up to a sacred mountain to steal shells from them. As expected, Native American culture does not think highly of greed, and in the story, the man is put to sleep as he tries to make his way down the mountain. However, he did wake up. When he did, he had changed into a better man, free of greed, and full of knowledge of how to better commune with the spirits. “He told them what to do to make peace with the spirits that lived on the mountain. He became the great medicine of the Nisqually.” (38) The value of not being greedy, and of respecting higher ups can be inferred from this story, as the man was presented in a good light once he renounced greed and started to commune and make peace with the spirits. Another story focuses on similar values, but in a much different life. Essentially, two very revered, very respected medicine men sacrifice themselves to the gods to call upon the rains again to absolve a Curse of Fire. They do so knowing that as elders, they would not have many more years to live anyways. Into a volcano they jump, and over the years afterwards, the volcano fills up with water. This creates Crater Lake, a place where no Native Americans visit. “Do not look upon this place. Look not upon this place, for it means death or everlasting sorrow.” (55) To them, the sacrifice still holds true today, and they know not to disrespect them, as they gave their lives when no one else would to save everyone. The values of respect are very strong in this story, as well as the value of self-sacrifice and selflessness. One last story is about the most important character in Nativ American mythology: Coyote, the Changer. He was given power to be friends with all of humanity, and to guide them throughout all troubles. “Old-One told Coyote to teach the Indians the best way to do things and the best way to make things. Life would be easier and better for them when they were no longer ignorant. Coyote then traveled on the earth and did many wonderful things.” (84) Doing things the right way, without the curse of ignorance, was so important to Native Americans that their most important spirit they talk about was focused on making sure all Native Americans would follow these ideals. The value of not being ignorant and making sure that things are right in the world, and are being done the right way, are crucial to Native American values.

Another important way of communicating values is the art of a culture. As most cultures do, Native American art is very different and unique, reflecting the morals and values of the culture both in the way that it is created and the stories that it tells. One of these artworks is Carpe Fin, a winding, curving mural that tells an important story. Carpenter, upon returning to his village from a city in modern day America, discovers that his people are suffering from a lack of food and resources. He initially tries to fix this situation by hunting sea lions, but when bad weather makes him fall into the depths of the oceans, he is berated by the Lord, and loses his humanity. He then tries to fix it by fishing without regard for the environment, causing much damage to the local ecosystem. However, he realizes his error, and starts to only fish in the traditional way, causing balance to be restored. At the end, the Lord comes down for a feast with all of Carpenter’s people in the village. There are many values communicated here, but one important one is respect, specifically for the world around everyone. Another one of these artworks is Southeast Wind’s Brother, an abstract yet defined painting. It is a tri-tone painting, only in red, white, and black. That particular color pallet gives it an odd look, almost otherworldly. It is most definitely not a mortal being. The story goes that Master-Carpenter went to war with Southeast Wind, in an attempt to push away the devastating storms and rains that had been terrorizing his people. After a fierce battle, the Haida people learned to always be weary of the weather, and to be weary of the unknown. The killer whale that represents Southeast Wind in this painting represents the ferocity of the weather, as well as the uncertainty. As they never knew what weather would strike, or when, they adopted the value of always being on the lookout for the unknown. It was important to be vigilant, and that’s the value they held. Masks are often used to hide someone’s true identity and conceal their anonymity. However, they can also be used to transform someone. The Nuxal Mask with humanoid face shows how a physical object can change someone, and how the values are shown through a physical medium. The mask represents the spiritual connection the Nuxal had to the earth, and they would dance in it in order to be closer with nature. The value of being one with nature and your environment, as well as respect for it, is apparent in this mask.
Many commonplace solutions are made of very simple compounds. We found the exact percentages (by mass) of each of the three components of Rumford baking powder by a variety of chemical techniques. To determine the mass of NaHCO3, we reacted baking powder with HCl and determined the mass of CO2 lost. Taking advantage of the insolubility of corn starch, we filtered water over the remains to find the mass, then reacted more baking powder with NaOH, then filtered that to find Ca(H2PO4)2. We found that baking powder is comprised of 44% corn starch (+7% error), 34.5% NaHCO3 (+13.5% error), and 34.4% Ca(H2PO4)2 (+21% error). Plausible reasons for the two latter errors include that fact that HCl may not have reacted completely. It also may have been due to under filtering, which would have let more weight stay and be incorrectly measured as CaHPO4. Compound separation has many uses. In the future, these methods can be applied to other simple solutions in order to determine the ratios of compounds. For example, the FDA might use these methods to determine the composition of a new food item to make sure that it’s safe.
People don’t usually say what they mean, whether they like it or not. A simple excuse here, a devious misdirection there. But perhaps the most common and important way is through underlying meaning in dialogue. For example, when most people have a rough day, they’ll often still say “Good, good,” in response to someone asking how they’re feeling. The play Fences by August Wilson is about the relationships between the different characters, and how what they say may not be what they mean. The main characters - Troy, Rose, and Cory - each have different wants and desires which change them throughout the play, revolving around the central plotline of the fence that Troy builds. In The Crucible by Arthur Miller, the numerous characters’ wants similarly drive the story forward, with the central plotline being the Salem witch trials of 1692. The people in both of these stories have wants and desires that are never stated, but instead implied through dialogue.

    In the story Fences, each character has a goal that they constantly try to achieve, but never directly talk about. Troy wants power and control over his family, especially his son Cory, who he sees as lazy and disrespectful. For example, Troy complains about Cory going to football practice instead of helping him: “Out, huh? He gone out ‘cause he know I want him to help me with this fence. I know how he is. That boy scared of work. He ain’t done a lick of work in his life.”(pg 23) Troy knows that football is important to Cory, yet still feels the need to impose his power over Cory to prove that he is in control. Anything that threatens his power must be dealt with accordingly. Even though his desire for power over his family is never explicitly stated, he still acts on it as much he can. Another example of this is when Troy talks to Lyons, a close friend of his, about Cory. “That boy walking around here smelling his piss… thinking he’s grown. Thinking he’s gonna do what he want, irrespective of what I say.” He doesn’t like it that Cory isn’t following exactly what he says, and assumes that Cory is trying to be irrespective of his orders. Whether or not Cory is being disrespectful purposely or just as a byproduct of other actions, Troy’s power is threatened and he later yells at Cory for being disrespectful. Cory also says his thoughts on the matter. Near the end of the play, he truly expresses how pressured and scared Troy made him feel. At one point, Cory says “You ain’t never gave me nothing! You ain’t never done nothing but hold me back. Afraid I was gonna be better than you. All you ever did was try and make me scared of you. I used to tremble every time you called my name. Every time I heard your footsteps in the house.”(pg 86) In this quote, Cory reveals how Troy made him scared all his life, with the only goal being more power. Yet, neither Troy nor Cory every explicitly states this; they simply imply it.

In the play The Crucible, each character uses the witch hunt as a facade for their own ulterior motives. Whether or not they truly believe in the existence of witches, they still accuse each other of being witches to suit their own agenda. For instance, Mary Warren tells Elizabeth of an accusation of witchcraft leveled against her.. 
Elizabeth, softly: “Am I accused?”
Mary Warren, quaking: “Somewhat mentioned. But I said I never see no sign you ever sent your spirit out to hurt no one, and seeing I do live so closely with you, they dismissed it.”
Elizabeth: “Who accused me?”
Mary Warren: “I am bound by law, I cannot tell it.”
Then, later on:
Elizabeth: “[Abigail] wants me dead. I knew it all week it would come to this… She wants me dead, John, you know it!”(pg 59-60) 
John and Elizabeth are husband and wife, and keep to themselves. However, Abigail is in love with John, having had an affair with him some time ago. With rumors of witchcraft springing up, she saw her chance to get Elizabeth out of the picture by accusing her of being a witch, knowing that she could be hanged with little to no evidence, which almost happens later on in the book. People also are driven by greed to accuse others of witchcraft. In a situation where an accusation is impossible to disprove, people will take advantage of it for their own profit. Without having a logic based way to determine guilt, more affluent citizens can assert anything without repercussions. For example, Giles Corey accuses Jacobs Putman of putting his daughter up to accusing one of his neighbors so that Jacob could buy it all up for cheap.
Danforth: “Mr. Putman, I have here an accusation by Mr. Corey against you. He states that you coldly prompted your daughter to cry witchery upon George Jacobs that is now in jail.”
Putnam: “That is a lie.”
Danforth, turning to Giles: “Mr. Putnam states your charge is a lie. What say you to that?”
……
Giles: “My proof is there! Pointing to the paper. If Jacobs hangs for a witch he forfeit up his property - that's law! And there is none but Putnam with the coin to buy so great a piece. This man is killing his neighbors for their land!” (pg 96) 
This is a accusation that is not taken lightly by Putnam, but nonetheless makes complete sense. However, with his wealth and power, he avoids jail while Giles is killed later on. Yet, he never admits to the crime, he just implies it. The affluent, richer characters get away with things simply because of their social status. 

    Both Fences and The Crucible present their characters’ explicit motivations and desires in similar ways, but show their implicit ones differently. Fences tends to show their wants through inter-character dialogue. After complaining about Cory running off without doing his chores, Troy lectures him on the importance of doing what he says before anything else.
Troy: “I ain’t but two seconds off you noway. The garbage sitting in there overflowing… you ain’t done none of your chores… and you come in here talking about “Yeah.”
Cory: “I was just getting read to do my chores now, Pop…”
Troy: “Your first chore is to help me with this fence on Saturday. Everything else come after that. Now get that saw and cut them boards.” (pg 31) 
We can clearly see his explicit want, which is for Cory to help him more and do his chores, and his implicit want, which is for more power over Cory as he grows older. The Crucible handles this slightly differently. Instead of the characters revealing what they want through their own dialogue, the reader is shown their wants through all of the other character’s dialogue. For instance, Minister Parris reveals a bit on how he views the world.
Giles: “You are allowed six pound a year to buy your wood, Mr. Parris.”
Parris: “I regard that six pound as part of my salary. I am paid little enough without I spend six pound on firewood.”
Proctor: “Sixty, plus six for firewood-”
Parris: “The salary is sixty-six pound, Mr. Proctor! I am not some preaching farmer with a book under my arm; I am a graduate of Harvard College… you people seem not to comprehend that a minister is the Lord’s man in the parish; A minister is not to be so lightly crossed and contradicted.” (pg 29)
Only because of other’s questioning did Parris reveal more about his implicit want for power. While Fences lets characters seek out and reveal their desires in a more straightforward way, The Crucible relies on other characters to glean information about their true desires. Neither of these ways are necessarily better then the other, and they both reflect the image they are presenting. 

Both Fences and The Crucible deal with interpersonal issues, but in different ways. Fences focuses on how underlying wants and desires are shown through surface level conversations, while The Crucible shows how other characters are necessary at times to reveal the true reasons behind actions. However, both plays use dialogue to convey meaning that would be hidden otherwise. People can take away important lessons on trust and communication that are displayed in these books. When these ideas are applied to real life, people can react in similar ways to the characters in the plays.Just as people have personalities unique to themselves, countries have traits and attributes for themselves.Today’s America is the summarization of several hundred years of ideas and literature. It is a complex melting pot of ideas and concepts. However, one good conglomeration of these ideas is James Wood’s Tocqueville in America, an overview of Alexis de Tocqueville’s Democracy in America. In this, Tocqueville makes many different observations about America, noting a strong sense of individuality, freedom, and perseverance. Several other texts also show these American traits. Into the Wild by Jon Krakauer and My Ántoina by Willa Cather depict the true American spirit with their tales of strong individuality. Civil Disobedience by Henry Thoreau comments and makes observations on the freedoms of individuals in America. Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury illustrates the perseverance for freedom of America. August Wilson’s play Fences explores a more intimate view of perseverance in America. And finally, Jack London’s To Build a Fire explains the thought process behind America’s tenacious love of freedom. America is an amalgamation of several different yet interconnecting ideas that form a distinct personality for the country as a whole.

In Into the Wild by Jon Krakauer, a young man by the name of Chris McCandless finds himself alone, and with infinite opportunities in America ahead of him. He ventures out across the country, as he describes himself in the third person.“No longer to be poisoned by civilization he flees, and walks upon the land to become lost in the wild.” (Into the Wild, pg 163) In America, there is the feeling that people can make something of themselves, that each person isn’t tied down to society. Chris experiences this, and he revels in the feeling. Chris sees civilization as “poison”, and tries to rid himself of it by getting “lost in the wild.” He is able to do this only because America gives him the opportunities to do so. America provides the vast, open wilderness for him to explore, while also having cities and towns to work and live in. No matter what a person desires, America is ready to let them be exclusively them. Another example is in My Ántonia, by Willa Cather. The book depicts the memoirs of Jim, an orphan from Virginia who moved to Nebraska, and Ántonia, his neighbor and friend. When he moves to the nearby town of Black Hawk, he meets Lena Lingard. Most people disregard her, assuming she will fall into line and marry somebody. However, Lena doesn't back down, going against all odds to become a respected dressmaker, independent and self reliant. “‘I live in Lincoln now, too, Jim. I’m in business for myself. I have a dressmaking shop in the Raleigh Block, out on O Street. I’ve made a real good start.’” (My Ántonia, pg 301) Lena did not bow down to what other people think of her; she fought until she was “in business for [her]self.” This is progress from the more antiquated times of kings and queens. In Civil Disobedience, Henry David Thoreau states that “The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward a true respect for the individual.” (Civil Disobedience, pg 27) As America is a fiercely democratic nation, being of the first at its inception, it truly does have the respect Thoreau says it does. Because democracy places such importance on each individual make their own voice heard, America has been and will continue to be a nation run by individuals, not by kings or dictators.

In Fahrenheit 451, the protagonist, Montag, lives in a dystopian society, where “firefighters” burn any books they find. As one of these firefighters, he does not question the status quo until he is introduced to what books really are. He is eventually run out of the city, and meets a band of travelers who also know the power of books. They talk to him about the true nature of how to live, with one telling him to “‘stuff your eyes with wonder,’ he said, ‘live as if you’d drop dead in ten seconds. See the world. It’s more fantastic than any dream made or paid for in factories. Ask for no guarantees, ask for no security, there never was such an animal.’” (Fahrenheit 451, pg 150) In America, nothing is guaranteed except freedom. There is nothing holding people back from simply stopping everything else and going out and seeing the world. It is “more fantastic than any dream made or paid for in factories,” and is a stark characteristic of America. Another story of struggle is To Build a Fire by Jack London. In this short story, a man sets out to make a trip across the frigid Alaskan plain, to get to another camp. Even though he is warned not to due to the severe cold and snow, he goes anyways. At one point, he almost dies, but keeps his head and manages to build a fire in time to save himself. “Well, here he was; he had had the accident; he was alone; and he had saved himself. Those old men were rather womanish, he thought. All a man must do was to keep his head, and he was all right. Any man who was a man could travel alone.” (To Build a Fire, pg 8) He displays a common idea that in America, people can put their mind to a problem and solve it. “All a man must do was to keep his head, and he was all right.” Possibly too much, as he later perishes in the cold, believing still that he can overcome any problem he encounters. Still, the air of “you can’t tell me what to do” is alive and well, unlike our protagonist. On the topic of not being told what to do, Civil Disobedience by Henry David Thoreau once again has plenty to state. In the beginning, he makes a point that might strike some non-Americans oddly. “All men recognize the right of revolution; that is, the right to refuse allegiance to and to resist the government, when its tyranny or its inefficiency are great and unendurable.” (Civil Disobedience, pg 6) In America, the right to resist tyrannical governments is in our blood, ever since our own revolution in 1776. However, in places where monarchies have been the de facto power for almost all of history, it might not be as obvious. That is another fundamental trait of freedom in America: to resist the government when the time might call for it. 

In Fahrenheit 451, Montag asks with the wandering band how they can possibly hope to keep books alive without simply giving up. One of them responds with this: “But that’s the wonderful thing about man; he never gets so discouraged or disgusted that he gives up doing it all over again, because he knows very well it is important and worth the doing.” (Fahrenheit 451, pg 146-147) This perfectly shows what the American spirit really is. No matter what hardships might fall upon people, they will always get back up (never getting “discouraged or disgusted”), because “[they] know very well it is important and worth the doing.” Even when people start off at a disadvantage, they don’t give up trying to climb. In August Wilson’s play Fences, the main character Troy has all cards stacked against him. Racism, past mistakes, and money issues are just the beginning of his troubles. However, he never gives up, even throughout all of the hardship. Near the end of the book, the talks about how you can never give up, and never let anything get past you. “But… you born with two strikes on you before you come to the plate. You got to guard it closely… always looking for the curve-ball on the inside corner. You can’t afford to let none get past you. You can’t afford a call strike. If you going down… you going down swinging.” (Fences, pg 69) The sentiment of “you going down swinging” shows the resilience and perseverance of the American mindset. Not even death can change that. A little bit later in Fences, Troy’s mistress dies in childbirth. However, he does not get dismayed by his misfortune. “Alright… Mr. Death. See now… I'm gonna tell you what i’m gonna do. I’m gonna take and build me a fence around this yard… Bring your army. Bring your sickle. Bring your wrestling clothes… Anytime you want. I’ll be ready for you.” (Fences, pg 77) He is truly prepared for anything, even death. No matter what, he will never give up fighting. “Anytime you want, I’ll be ready for you.” Just like America, he is always ready, always prepared.

    However, why does any of this matter? Who cares. Simply put, nobody. Words are just that, words. Information, but not to dissimilar from chaos. Every person’s own idea on what America is or can be is up to them. Some people might be impacted by what other people write on what America is, but there is no reason to assume most will. Conflicting opinions hurt just as much as physical pain does, and usually only reinforce existing ideas. There are, for sure, many examples of individuality, freedom, and perseverance in today’s America, but there are equally as many examples of conformity, suppression, and lethargy. Tocqueville would not like the current America, but as it is with all things, change is scary. A person from the past cannot accurately judge the future, because they still hold their old ideals and ideas. Essentially, there is no point to this entire essay.
Just as people have personalities unique to themselves, countries have traits and attributes for themselves.Today’s America is the summarization of several hundred years of ideas and literature. It is a complex melting pot of ideas and concepts. However, one good conglomeration of these ideas is James Wood’s Tocqueville in America, an overview of Alexis de Tocqueville’s Democracy in America. In this, Tocqueville makes many different observations about America, noting a strong sense of individuality, freedom, and perseverance. Several other texts also show these American traits. Into the Wild by Jon Krakauer and My Ántoina by Willa Cather depict the true American spirit with their tales of strong individuality. Civil Disobedience by Henry Thoreau comments and makes observations on the freedoms of individuals in America. Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury illustrates the perseverance for freedom of America. August Wilson’s play Fences explores a more intimate view of perseverance in America. And finally, Jack London’s To Build a Fire explains the thought process behind America’s tenacious love of freedom. America is an amalgamation of several different yet interconnecting ideas that form a distinct personality for the country as a whole.

In Into the Wild by Jon Krakauer, a young man by the name of Chris McCandless finds himself alone, and with infinite opportunities in America ahead of him. He ventures out across the country, as he describes himself in the third person.“No longer to be poisoned by civilization he flees, and walks upon the land to become lost in the wild.” (Into the Wild, pg 163) In America, there is the feeling that people can make something of themselves, that each person isn’t tied down to society. Chris experiences this, and he revels in the feeling. Chris sees civilization as “poison”, and tries to rid himself of it by getting “lost in the wild.” He is able to do this only because America gives him the opportunities to do so. America provides the vast, open wilderness for him to explore, while also having cities and towns to work and live in. No matter what a person desires, America is ready to let them be exclusively them. Another example is in My Ántonia, by Willa Cather. The book depicts the memoirs of Jim, an orphan from Virginia who moved to Nebraska, and Ántonia, his neighbor and friend. When he moves to the nearby town of Black Hawk, he meets Lena Lingard. Most people disregard her, assuming she will fall into line and marry somebody. However, Lena doesn't back down, going against all odds to become a respected dressmaker, independent and self reliant. “‘I live in Lincoln now, too, Jim. I’m in business for myself. I have a dressmaking shop in the Raleigh Block, out on O Street. I’ve made a real good start.’” (My Ántonia, pg 301) Lena did not bow down to what other people think of her; she fought until she was “in business for [her]self.” This is progress from the more antiquated times of kings and queens. In Civil Disobedience, Henry David Thoreau states that “The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward a true respect for the individual.” (Civil Disobedience, pg 27) As America is a fiercely democratic nation, being of the first at its inception, it truly does have the respect Thoreau says it does. Because democracy places such importance on each individual make their own voice heard, America has been and will continue to be a nation run by individuals, not by kings or dictators.

In Fahrenheit 451, the protagonist, Montag, lives in a dystopian society, where “firefighters” burn any books they find. As one of these firefighters, he does not question the status quo until he is introduced to what books really are. He is eventually run out of the city, and meets a band of travelers who also know the power of books. They talk to him about the true nature of how to live, with one telling him to “‘stuff your eyes with wonder,’ he said, ‘live as if you’d drop dead in ten seconds. See the world. It’s more fantastic than any dream made or paid for in factories. Ask for no guarantees, ask for no security, there never was such an animal.’” (Fahrenheit 451, pg 150) In America, nothing is guaranteed except freedom. There is nothing holding people back from simply stopping everything else and going out and seeing the world. It is “more fantastic than any dream made or paid for in factories,” and is a stark characteristic of America. Another story of struggle is To Build a Fire by Jack London. In this short story, a man sets out to make a trip across the frigid Alaskan plain, to get to another camp. Even though he is warned not to due to the severe cold and snow, he goes anyways. At one point, he almost dies, but keeps his head and manages to build a fire in time to save himself. “Well, here he was; he had had the accident; he was alone; and he had saved himself. Those old men were rather womanish, he thought. All a man must do was to keep his head, and he was all right. Any man who was a man could travel alone.” (To Build a Fire, pg 8) He displays a common idea that in America, people can put their mind to a problem and solve it. “All a man must do was to keep his head, and he was all right.” Possibly too much, as he later perishes in the cold, believing still that he can overcome any problem he encounters. Still, the air of “you can’t tell me what to do” is alive and well, unlike our protagonist. On the topic of not being told what to do, Civil Disobedience by Henry David Thoreau once again has plenty to state. In the beginning, he makes a point that might strike some non-Americans oddly. “All men recognize the right of revolution; that is, the right to refuse allegiance to and to resist the government, when its tyranny or its inefficiency are great and unendurable.” (Civil Disobedience, pg 6) In America, the right to resist tyrannical governments is in our blood, ever since our own revolution in 1776. However, in places where monarchies have been the de facto power for almost all of history, it might not be as obvious. That is another fundamental trait of freedom in America: to resist the government when the time might call for it. 

In Fahrenheit 451, Montag asks with the wandering band how they can possibly hope to keep books alive without simply giving up. One of them responds with this: “But that’s the wonderful thing about man; he never gets so discouraged or disgusted that he gives up doing it all over again, because he knows very well it is important and worth the doing.” (Fahrenheit 451, pg 146-147) This perfectly shows what the American spirit really is. No matter what hardships might fall upon people, they will always get back up (never getting “discouraged or disgusted”), because “[they] know very well it is important and worth the doing.” Even when people start off at a disadvantage, they don’t give up trying to climb. In August Wilson’s play Fences, the main character Troy has all cards stacked against him. Racism, past mistakes, and money issues are just the beginning of his troubles. However, he never gives up, even throughout all of the hardship. Near the end of the book, the talks about how you can never give up, and never let anything get past you. “But… you born with two strikes on you before you come to the plate. You got to guard it closely… always looking for the curve-ball on the inside corner. You can’t afford to let none get past you. You can’t afford a call strike. If you going down… you going down swinging.” (Fences, pg 69) The sentiment of “you going down swinging” shows the resilience and perseverance of the American mindset. Not even death can change that. A little bit later in Fences, Troy’s mistress dies in childbirth. However, he does not get dismayed by his misfortune. “Alright… Mr. Death. See now… I'm gonna tell you what i’m gonna do. I’m gonna take and build me a fence around this yard… Bring your army. Bring your sickle. Bring your wrestling clothes… Anytime you want. I’ll be ready for you.” (Fences, pg 77) He is truly prepared for anything, even death. No matter what, he will never give up fighting. “Anytime you want, I’ll be ready for you.” Just like America, he is always ready, always prepared.

    However, why does any of this matter? Who cares. Simply put, nobody. Words are just that, words. Information, but not to dissimilar from chaos. Every person’s own idea on what America is or can be is up to them. Some people might be impacted by what other people write on what America is, but there is no reason to assume most will. Conflicting opinions hurt just as much as physical pain does, and usually only reinforce existing ideas. There are, for sure, many examples of individuality, freedom, and perseverance in today’s America, but there are equally as many examples of conformity, suppression, and lethargy. Tocqueville would not like the current America, but as it is with all things, change is scary. A person from the past cannot accurately judge the future, because they still hold their old ideals and ideas. Essentially, there is no point to this entire essay.

After the United States gained independence in 1776, there was constant expansion westward for the next 100 years. The United States’s idea of Manifest Destiny in the mid 19th century was confirmed when they won the Mexican-American war in a crushing victory. The war established the US as a major military power, gave it room to expand into, and left the US with no one to challenge them.

    Manifest Destiny is a social-political idea that came forth in the United States in the 19th century. It is the idea that the settlers and people of the United States were ordained to travel and expand westward. Manifest Destiny has three main tenets. The first is to spread the spiritual and cultural values of America as a whole. The second is to transform the wild, hostile landscape into an Americanized agrarian society. The third and final tenet is that there is a destiny under God to accomplish  these goals. This idea started in with Continentalism, or the idea that the United States would one day completely control all of North America. Several prominent figures such as, John Quincy Adams, believed this to be the true destiny of America. He saw the Louisiana purchase and the Transcontinental Treaty as signs of Continentalism in the works. Later on, after the Mexican-American war, Pro war Americans, especially the Democrats, used this idea of Manifest Destiny to explain the quite brutal takeover of most of Mexico, and to argue for the All of Mexico Campaign after the war. 

The boost in patriotism in the United States caused by the Mexican American war was a factor in the idea of Manifest Destiny. The general consensus among those pro-war was that America had a god-given Manifest Destiny. In a sense, the conquering of most of Mexico was divine intervention to the Democrats. A movement call the All of Mexico Movement was started by these Democrats shortly after the war ended, who hoped to use it to further their own campaigns. The All of Mexico Movement’s goal was to fully take over and annex Mexico into the United States. It was viewed as a direct interpretation of the Manifest Destiny that came about because of the war. However, it was very controversial, for several reasons. First, citizenships would have to be granted to millions of Mexicans, which was not popular among both sides of the aisle. Second, it would be forcing American culture onto those now citizens, which was against the isolationism that the US was supposed to follow. Thankfully, due to the official Mexican cession of the territories of California and Nuevo Mexico, the movement died out before it could be acted upon, sparing Mexico and Mexican culture as a whole. However, the increase in patriotism did not fade. The US continued to expand culturally, and continues to this day.

Before the Mexican-American war, the United States was not viewed as a necessarily powerful country, either economically or militarily. However, after the war, the US was started to be viewed as a powerful force to be reckoned with. Two years after war was officially declared with Mexico, the US rose victoriously with nearly 55% of Mexico’s territory, all the while with Mexico shattered in every way possible. As the colonial conquest for Britain started to slow down, America’s started to speed up. During the 19th century, America successfully expanded or colonized the Oregon territories, Texas, half of Mexico, and several Native American territories. As the US approached the turn of the century, the per capita income doubled. Shipyards were in full swing, and were said to build some of the best in the world. Economies of scale started to take hold. This allowed large scale production of products and goods that could be bought for cheap. The expanded railroad system allowed freight trains to export these goods for sale all across the country, and to ships that would take them across the world. 

    The United States developed the idea of Manifest Destiny as the result of their colonialism, but was continued and confirmed by the Mexican-American war. It spurred on an patriotic, economic, and militaristic rise throughout the country. It even gave rise to a movement for more conquest through Mexico, but failed due to political reasons. In summary, the Mexican-American war advanced the United States further towards the Imperial state it is today.
Treatment of People Compared to Gods in Oedipus Rex 
	How people treat others is often related to the levels of authority that they have. People are more likely to listen to people of a higher echelon than a lower one. Oedipus is a prime example of this as because of his status as king, he ignores all other people who disagree with him but will listen to the gods. Unfortunately for Oedipus, the gods don’t speak to him directly, and a mouthpiece of the gods says things that he doesn’t agree with. This choice to ignore others leads Oedipus on his way to meet his destiny and leave him in shambles; he hurts his city, family, and himself because his hubris would not allow him to listen to others. Gods can see what destiny lies for a person and while destiny is unavoidable Oedipus reacts differently to gods than he does to priests, and whom he chooses to listen to sets him on his path towards his fate.
	While Oedipus often has an intransigent attitude towards other people, he will heed warnings from the gods and will even actively seek out their guidance. When Apollo tells Oedipus about his destiny, of killing his father and marrying his mother, he acts immediately. He says that he “heard all that and ran. I abandoned Corinth, from that day on I gauged its landfall only by the stars, running, always running toward some place where I would never see the shame of all those oracles come true.” (204) The fact that Oedipus chose to run away from his hometown “On that day” shows how god’s word makes him act with celerity and without any guidance or semblance of a plan. He also shows this as he could “gauged its landfall” with only the stars and no other system. In this context, gauged means estimated and landfall means his arrival on land, specifically on a journey by sea, so he is saying that he only navigated the waters with the stars and with no real target. Oedipus also repeats running in his speech which further emphasizes his mental state and how he heeded Apollo’s warning to the point where he wanted to do everything possible to avoid his destiny. Not only does Oedipus heed warnings from divine figures, but he will also actively seek advice or help from them if he feels that he needs it. At the beginning of Oedipus Rex, the city of Thebes is in a state of disarray with a plague. When Oedipus addresses his citizens about what he plans to do he says that he “found one cure… I sent Creon, my wife’s own brother, to Delphi-Apollo the Prophet’s oracle-to learn what I might do or say to save our city” (162). Oedipus says that he “found one cure” which shows how he sees divine intervention both a last chance but also the highest authority in terms of ability to provide aid to him.
	Oedipus regards other people as having less power than him and his relationship with them is related to whether they agree with him or not. When Oedipus starts his search for Laius’ murderer, he decides to talk to a prophet who had worked under Laius. Tiresias, while blind, is aware that Oedipus had killed Laius and fulfilled his destiny. At first, Tiresias is unwilling to say anything to protect Oedipus but he is unremitting in his interrogation. When Tiresias admits to Oedipus that he is the murderer he says that “If I thought you would blurt out such absurdities, you’d have died waiting before I’d had you summoned.” (184). At this point in the story, Oedipus has already killed Laius, but despite this, he finds the idea that he killed Laius “absurd” and that because of his power as king he sees fit to have killed Tiresias because of his statement. The use of the word “blurt” further suggests that Oedipus doesn’t find Tiresias as a reliable source despite him being a trusted priest of the previous king. After this, Oedipus alleges that Creon had colluded with Tiresias to steal the throne from him. “You, [Creon] plotting to kill me, kill the king- I see it all, the marauding thief himself scheming to steal my crown and power!” (189). Oedipus has no information about Creon attempting “steal” Oedipus’ throne but because Tiresias said that Oedipus had killed Laius, Oedipus immediately assumed that Creon had put Tiresias up to it. He said that he “see[s] it all” showing how he truly believed that was the case. When Oedipus wants information from people who do not wish to talk, he doesn’t just accept it but rather is so unwilling to understand why the person doesn’t wish to talk and resorts to unrelenting interrogation and torture. When the shepherd who received Oedipus from Jocasta is trying to spare Oedipus and himself from the truth, wishes to not talk but Oedipus keeps wanting to force an answer and says “So, you won’t talk willingly-then you’ll talk with pain.” (228). Oedipus doesn’t think about the consequences of having the shepherd talk about what had happened or why the shepherd chose not to talk. He instead, sees himself as the king and having the power to make the shepherd speak. 
	In the book of Genesis in the Bible, Adam and Eve are spoken to directly by God and despite this, they still choose to eat the fruit that they were forbidden from eating. In this instance, Eve believed the serpent and ignored God. But in Oedipus Rex, Oedipus will listen to the gods but will only listen to people if they support him and his opinions. This play can show how blindly ignoring differing ideas can only lead to pain. Because of this, Oedipus Rex shows how a person cannot have hubris or they will become also ignore opinions and facts that they don’t personally agree with and that doing this can lead to a fate as bad as Oedipus’.
Life is made up of the many decisions that people make. At any point, someone can change the course of their life by changing their mindset and making a decision. Faustus makes a decision and strikes a deal with Mephistopheles, but he doesn’t change his mindset to leave the deal. Leaving the deal made with Mephistopheles would allow Faustus to still live a normal life and go to heaven in the afterlife. The arguments made by Faustus, the angels, and Mephistopheles aren’t good enough to justify Faustus’ downfall. Faustus not only makes the deal knowing the consequences of living a depraved life, but he also follows through with the deal and doesn’t change his mindset despite that change only requiring repentance. Faustus could immediately make his life better by changing his mind and repenting, but he doesn’t, and being pertinacious because of arguments he and others make, leads to his downfall.
Faustus chooses to make the deal with Mephistopheles and put himself in a position where he is living in sin. The reasoning behind why Faustus chooses to make the deal isn’t adequate enough for the downfall that it will lead him to. One way that Mephistopheles convinces Faustus to make a deal is by reducing the perceived negative ramifications that will come by making the deal. When the two are talking about hell and where it is Mephistopheles says “Why this is hell, nor am I out of it” (22.). At this point, Mephistopheles is saying “this is hell” or that hell is all that isn’t heaven. He follows this by saying that he is not out of hell to enforce the idea that everything that isn’t heaven is hell. This argument isn’t adequate for making a decision to live a life fraught with sin because Faustus knows that life on earth can still be fulfilling. Faustus also knows that life after death is heaven if he chooses not to make the deal. Right before Faustus makes a deal, the good and bad angels tell Faustus to think of things that could come to him based on whether he makes the deal or not. The good angel tells Faustus to “think of heaven, and heavenly things.” (31), and the bad angel tells Faustus to “think of honor and wealth” (31). The good angel makes an argument based on more abstract things that will affect Faustus in the future. This is because Faustus will not be in heaven until after he passes and therefore has no clear idea of what heaven is. The bad angel on the other hand makes an argument based on honor and wealth which will impact Faustus in his life. This argument also uses things that are more tangible such as wealth. Faustus ultimately chooses honor and wealth over God, but this reasoning isn’t enough compared to Faustus’ eternal damnation. The difference between making the choice between the good and bad angels’ arguments is the mindset one has. One can focus on mundane things or focus on heavenly things. 
	After Faustus makes his bargain with Mephistopheles, he has doubts but ultimately stays in his pact until he is doomed. The reasons that convince him to stay in the deal are also not sufficient for a deal that leads to Faustus’ downfall. When Faustus is expressing doubts about the deal and is thinking about repenting, Mephistopheles threatens Faustus with physical violence and says, “Thou traitor, Faustus, I arrest thy soul For disobedience to my sovereign land, Revolt, or I’ll in piece-meal tear thy flesh.” (89). In this context, Mephistopheles is calling Faustus a traitor for considering repentance as Mephistopheles’ sovereign land is hell and repentance would be for God. Mephistopheles then threatens to tear Faustus’ flesh “in piece-meal.” Peace-meal means that Mephistopheles will cut Faustus in increments, and this adds torture to the threat. This is because cutting flesh in small increments would not kill Faustus immediately, but rather cause significant pain until his death. This is not a good reason for Faustus to stay in his mindset because he is being bullied out of making a personal decision. Faustus wants to change his life for the better and is willing to put aside his hubris to change his mindset at this time. Mephistopheles however, only convinces Faustus to do otherwise with a macabre image of torture and physical pain.
	While the reasons that Faustus use to justify living a life of sin aren’t isn’t adequate, the ease of leaving this mindset also shows that Faustus could make a decision in his mind and change the course of his life. In Catholicism, repentance is all that is required to be saved by God, and Faustus has the option to repent many times throughout the play after he has made a deal with Mephistopheles. In scene seven of the play, Faustus is regretting his deal with Mephistopheles and when thinking about repentance, the Good Angel says, “Faustus, repent; yet God will pity thee.” (45). Repentance is feeling regret for past actions. In Christianity, no one is irreparable, and they can be forgiven if they repent their past sins. This means that, according to the angel, God will pity and forgive Faustus if he recants his sins. Pity, in this context, means that God will allow Faustus to enter the verdant fields of heaven despite making the deal and for all the sins that follow. Simply by changing his mindset, Faustus can drastically change his life from living in sin because of God’s forgiveness despite all of the acts of sacrilege that Faustus commits throughout the play. But in the end, Faustus determines for himself that his “heart's so hardened [he] cannot repent.” (46). This shows that Faustus’ hubris is preventing him from changing his mindset. Faustus says that his “heart’s so hardened” because of the sin that he has already committed. However, in Christianity, no one is beyond forgiveness. This means that Faustus believes that he knows more than God because while the Good Angel, and Catholicism, says that he can repent, he decides that he cannot. Faustus’ heart may be hardened due to sin, but there is no reason that he cannot change his mindset, repent, and change his life for the better.
	In Christianity, Adam and Eve distance themselves from God by eating fruit from the tree of knowledge of good and evil. They are were told by God not to eat the fruit, but the serpent convinces them to do otherwise. Knowledge, and the mindset that Adam and Eve have been were put in because of the knowledge, is what distances them from God and makes humans start sinning. This is similar to Dr. Faustus’ story because Mephistopheles convinces Faustus to make a deal with the devil which distances himself from God. While this story as well as Dr. Faustus’ story center around Christianity, the lesson about mindset can apply to anyone. Though at times it may be difficult, anyone can change their lives by changing their way of thinking. While other people may try to convince people to change their mindset, the decision-making process can only be executed by one’s self. 
At the surface level, Crime and Punishment by Fyodor Dostoyevski is a story about a young student committing murders and becoming mentally unstable. Raskolnikov kills a pawnbroker and her sister because he is impecunious and needs money, but continues to justify his murders in many ways. The thought process that Raskolnikov uses to decide committing murders and to justify the murders is fraught with unfinalizability. The idea of unfinalizability is by Mikhail Bakhtin and means that someone cannot truly be finalized in thought by oneself: If someone thinks about something, they cannot truly be finished in thought about that idea. Bakhtin also came up with another idea relating to Crime and Punishment: polyphony. Polyphony is the idea that each character is self-conscious and because of this, the events of the plot are a result of the characters and not because the author requires the plot to move forward. Good and bad are very ambiguous terms and they are hard to define. Raskolnikov’s definition of good will differ from many other people’s definitions. In this analysis, an evil act is one that causes suffering for other people. While Raskolnikov originally murders the pawnbroker and her sister for money, he views the murders as more of killing an idea rather than killing a person. Because of this, Raskolnikov justifies the murders by thinking that the murders are an ideological advancement for society. He also justifies the murders by helping others. He thinks that if he hadn’t killed the pawnbroker to steal items of value, he would not have the money to help others. With this, Raskolnikov’s morality is at least partially based on fairness. But at some point in the book, he does accept that murders were bad. Raskolnikov is a complicated human being in this book. Even though he commits murders, it is impossible to put in entirely in a category of good or bad, because his sense of morality is in tension. 
	Raskolnikov’s interactions with characters regarding the pawnbroker and his thoughts about her after the murder show how Raskolnikov’s sense of morality is in tension as he will both justify his actions and decry them. After Raskolnikov confesses the crime to Sonya, she reacts by saying that the crime was “not right.” (458). Raskolnikov justifies the murders to Sonya by saying, “I merely killed a louse, Sonya, a useless, vile, pernicious louse!” (458). Louse means a cruel person but can also refer to a type of insect, and pernicious means destructive or deadly. When Raskolnikov calls Alyona, the pawnbroker, a “useless, vile, pernicious louse” he is saying he killed a useless, destructive, cruel person. He is also saying that, in his myopic point of view, he iswas justified in committing the murders. Raskolnikov’s sense of morality allows Raskolnikov to view his actions in a relatively positive way because he believes that what he did was fair. These ideas weren’t just told to Sonya in the heat of the moment, and Raskolnikov has ample time to think about this. In his endless thought process, he comes up with a similar idea. “The old woman was merely an illness…. I wanted to hurry up and overstep…. I didn’t kill a person, I killed a principle!” (301). Similar to what he says to Sonya, Raskolnikov believes that Alyona is an illness to justify the murder in his eyes. Raskolnikov also says that he “killed a principle,” and this relates to the concept of unfinalizability. After committing the murders, Raskolnikov spends too much time alone thinking about the crime. The resulting thought is that when he killed Alyona, he killed not just an intolerable person but also an idea. This is based on his moral view of relative fairness. He killed the principle that intolerable people can be in better positions than people like himself. This is what Raskolnikov believes and is not the end all be all of what is right or not.
	Raskolnikov’s initial reason for killing Alyona is pecuniary hardship, and this relates to his family’s position. When talking about why he killed Alyona to Sonya he talks about his family’s position and how it validates his actions. Raskolnikov says that “my mother has almost nothing. My sister received an education by chance… All their hopes were placed on me alone.” (457). Raskolnikov says that “all their hopes” were on him which shows how desperate he feels his situation is. He also says that his mother is in an indigent position. He then emphasizes this point by saying that it was very unlikely for his sister to get an education but is fortunate enough to be educated. Raskolnikov feels immense pressure to succeed because of his family’s situation. The narrator also mentions that “He was speaking as if he had memorized these words.” (457). This also shows how Raskolnikov has likely thought much about this by himself so as to justify his actions in his own mind. Throughout the novel, Raskolnikov’s sister, Dunya, and Raskolnikov argue about the fact that she is getting married. Raskolnikov believes that Dunya is only marrying only for money. In response, Dunya says to him, “you assume that I’m sacrificing myself to someone and for someone. But that’s not true at all. I’m getting married for myself, because I find things difficult.” (255). Here, Dunya restates what she thinks Raskolnikov believes: she is only getting married for financial support. Then, she says that she is getting married of her own volition. Even if she is mainly getting married for support. This connects to Bakhtin’s concept of polyphony as Dunya’s opinion is her own. Her choice to get married isn’t just so the plot can move forward because it reveals information about her. Raskolnikov still justifies his actions by saying that he murdered for financial stability and that he killed an idea, but will not tolerate the idea of Dunya marrying for money. Raskolnikov’s sense of morality is torn as he will condone his own behavior, but will not allow others to act with the same logic.
	While Crime and Punishment focuses on Raskolnikov’s murder and his reaction to committing such an act of sacrilege, the epilogue exhumes that Raskolnikov also has committed acts to aid others at his own sacrifice. In one instance, Raskolnikov even “Rescued two children from an apartment that had already been enveloped in flames, and that he himself had received burns in that fire.” (590). This is an act of celerity that Raskolnikov made to come to the aid of those in extreme danger. Many bystanders would not act in the face of such a dangerous situation, but Raskolnikov risked himself for others. Just because Raskolnikov commits murders doesn’t mean that he isn’t irredeemable nor does that mean that he has no sense of right or wrong. His sense of morality is in tension as he uses his deeds that help others to justify his murder. One of the main reasons Raskolnikov kills Alyona is so he can steal from her. But even though he needed money, he used his “last resources, helping a poor and consumptive fellow student and that he’d continued to support him for almost half a year” (589). This is a point that comes up during Raskolnikov’s trial, and it ultimately helps give him a more lenient sentence. The fact that Raskolnikov not only helped a fellow student but continued to support him for an inordinate amount of time shows that this wasn’t a spur of the moment decision. Rather, it was an active choice for him to help another person because he could, even if it meant sacrificing his own financial position. However, while Raskolnikov does help another person, he uses this to justify him murdering Alyona. When talking to an officer, Raskolnikov says “Murder her and take her money and then use it to dedicate yourself to the service of all humanity and to the common good.” (72). Before committing the crime, Raskolnikov explicitly says that murdering Alyona would be “a service to humanity” and that it would benefit “the common good.”
	Despite being cognizant of the fact that Raskolnikov has committed murder, Sonya continues to morally support him. She is also the reason that Raskolnikov can be redeemed in the epilogue. After she already knows about the crime, Raskolnikov tells her that he will go to prison. Understandably, Sonya starts crying, and after Raskolnikov leaves he thinks about this. “I needed her tears; I needed to see her fear, to see how her heart aches and how she suffers.” (576). Raskolnikov uses Sonya and her plaintiveness. He later says that he uses these emotions to “have something to cling to” (576). Raskolnikov focuses on Sonya’s problems so he can temporarily ignore his own problems. More importantly, Raskolnikov is being honest and admitting this to himself. He admits that he is relying on both Sonya’s suffering and her evincing it to him. Raskolnikov also admits that this makes him a bad person to some extent as he says, “I am, what a wretch!” (576). This is another example of Raskolnikov’s morality being in tension as he treats Sonya badly but regrets his actions afterward. In the epilogue of Crime and Punishment, Raskolnikov is in prison and other prisoners “shun” and hate him. When Sonya visits him, “he wept and embraced her knees” (603). After this, Raskolnikov and other prisoners start to get along better. Raskolnikov treated Sonya poorly. After all of his actions, he is left with almost no one supporting him. However, Raskolnikov finds love inside himself and shows it to Sonya. 
	"The world isn't split into good people and Death Eaters. We've all got both light and dark inside us. What matters is the part we choose to act on. That's who we really are." --Sirius Black (Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix). This applies to almost everyone in the world. In a time where so many people are captious and eager to call another group of people “wrong” or “bad,” this lesson matters more now than ever. The United States of America is, at this time, more divided than ever before. If people on both sides of the political aisle could see the other as anything but “wrong,” maybe we would see that there is more common ground than we think. Raskolnikov is not a good person because he kills Alyona and her Lizaveta. Not only does he take their lives, but he causes the suffering of many other people including both the people around him and Alyona’s family. But does that automatically make him a bad person? The trial revealed that Raskolnikov committed acts of selflessness at his own expense, sacrificing both money and health. In Christianity, the only person that Jesus promises a place in heaven for is not a disciple, but a criminal. While this is a specific example from only one religion, it still shows how people aren’t irreparable. Raskolnikov committed horrible atrocities, but by the end of the epilogue was saved and changed. If Raskolnikov can be saved, he cannot purely be a bad person. Just like the real world, people cannot be all good or all bad. People can commit actions that cause suffering for other people, but that cannot mean people are automatically evil. If Raskolnikov can be saved from being evil, are there any people who have committed atrocities so bad that they cannot be forgiven and are definitively evil? 
I leave in summer
Clear blue skies like Crater Lake
as I enter the
stormy ocean of motion
Hour time together was short
“Five minutes till you’re up on stage!” yelled Rob over the loud band that was currently playing. Despite being only a foot away from Greg, being backstage while a metal band was performing meant that yelling was necessitated. “You need to grab your guitar and make sure everything is set up now or you’ll be late.” Greg stopped in his tracks and grasped his stomach. The band on stage had just finished a song and during the silence, Rob said more calmly, “Dude, you gotta get your stuff set up or you’ll be late.” Rob sighed and said “Man, the audience has been engaged with the bands today.” Greg took a minute, and looked out towards the audience. They went as far as he could see. He tried to look beyond the audience to see where they ended and where the horizon began, but it was a foggy evening and he couldn’t see past the audience. 
After contemplating the time crunch he was under, Greg bolted towards the guitar rack which temporarily held all the guitars to be used tonight. After a quick glance, he saw his own. In one swift motion, he was able to grab the guitar by the neck and swing the strap over his head. The guitar had two knobs and a hole near the strings that was about the same size as the knobs. He grabbed his guitar and almost by instinct, he quickly moved the volume knob to the zero position. This change does nothing to an electric guitar unless it is plugged into an amplifier, but somehow this made Greg feel less nervous. The next thing Greg had to do was tune his guitar. Any instrument would sound dissonant if out of tune.
Greg reached the live rack, which held some of the guitar effects, power controls, and of course, the guitar tuner. He grasped a nearby guitar cable and plugged it into the tuner. After fiddling around with the rest of the cable, he attempted to plug it into his guitar but had to keep prodding at the instrument.
”Hey, if you hit your guitar any harder, you’re gonna make an output jack.”  Greg turned around to see his band’s singer Brock watching Greg’s multiple failed attempts at plugging in his guitar. Greg followed with, “What are you even doing right now anyway? We gotta get on stage in three minutes.”
“I’m trying to tune before we get on stage,” Greg replied while still struggling to get the cable to connect with his guitar. 
“You know, you should just stay out of tune. If you sound bad, the audience will think I’m the better musician.”  Brock said followed by a short laugh.
“No, we’ll both sound bad if I’m out of tune,” Greg answered with a straight face while ceasing his attempts to plug in his guitar.
“Relax, I’m just kidding, either way, we’ll be fine. Have fun tuning” Brock said. He paused for a minute and said, “You know, a while ago I went to a show that focused on getting new bands some publicity. I knew two of the bands that were performing. The members of one of the bands were really relaxed before they got onstage. They acted like they hadn’t rehearsed at all, but when they got up on stage they killed it. The other band was very prepared, but were super stressed before they played. They false started their first song and couldn’t recover.” Brock paused for a second and finished with, “Anyways, I’ll let you finish tuning” before walking away.  Greg took a deep breath and turned the volume knob on his guitar from zero to three. 
Greg looked back down at his guitar and lifted it up so he could see the output jack. He plugged in the guitar and started tuning. He played the low E string and reached to adjust the tuning peg. As he started turning it his hand slipped. He glanced at his left hand and saw that it was drenched in sweat. He wiped his hands and finished tuning the guitar. After tuning, Greg reached his volume knob and put it in the seven position. 
Greg tookdecided to take another look at the audience making sure not to be seen. The fog had let up a little but it didn’t reveal the horizon. Instead, the declining fog revealed more people excited about the band’s climax and the end of their set. Greg reached for his guitar and moved the volume knob to the five position. He inched backward for a couple of steps and quickly bolted towards his personal gear. 
He yanked at his gigbag, but it didn’t budge. He pulled harder and harder, but the gigbag wouldn’t dislodge. He pulled harder and harder until the back strap of the bag ripped off. Greg lost his balance and fell on his back. He took a second to inspect his instrument, but no noticeable damage was done to it. He regained his balance, wiped his hands on his jeans, and pulled the zipper to reveal a small one-watt guitar amplifier and another guitar cable. This time Greg remembered to pull the guitar up and look at the output jack while plugging in the cable. He plugged the other end of the cable to the guitar amp, turned the volume knob on his guitar to seven, and turned the amp on. But the light next to the on-switch didn’t flash. He pushed the button a couple of times but nothing. The nine-volt battery in the amp must have died. They did have to travel a fair distance to the concert venue. He clasped the cable with the amp dangling from it and ran back to the soundboard where Rob would be. 
“Rob I need a nine-volt battery,” Greg said while gasping for air.
Rob took a second and focused on Greg’s guitar and said “Why? Your guitar doesn’t need a battery.”
“No, I need to take a second to practice, but my practice amp is dead.”
“You don’t have time. You only have two minutes before you get on stage.” Greg started to reach for his volume knob. Then Rob continued, “I can try to get the show delayed, but I think ”
Greg waited a second and headed for the front of the stage. But when he reached the entrance he stopped. Brock walked up from behind him and asked “You ready?” Greg nodded and in one swift motion, his pinky reached down and yanked the volume knob all the way to the ten position. Brock followed with, “You seemed super stressed out, but imagine if you were calm this whole time. Anyways, see you out there.” Then Brock ran out onto the stage along with a surge of noise emitting from the crowd. 
Greg then noticed that his hands and feet were still sweaty so he pulled his shoes and socks off and wiped his hands on his jeans. “The stage is too special a place to be wearing shoes anyways.”

River Symbol Paragraph
	The river is a symbol for life and its function is to propel characters forward in their own lives. We travel through time at the speed of one second per second, and no one can change this no matter how hard they may try. Likewise, people can’t just turn off the pace of life. This is why Arundhati Roy chose a river instead of something like a road or another type of border like a fence. It is very difficult for someone to stop a river. And if someone enters a river, it will push the person in the direction the river is flowing. However, the river does die. Rahel observes the river as, “Smel[ing] of shit and pesticides bought with World Bank loans. [And that] Most of the fish had died.” (Roy 14) This helps support that the River is a symbol for life as even the river, after seeing lies like Velutha and Ammu’s affair and death like Sophie Mol’s the river has become tainted like any life would after seeing these things. This is important because the symbol shows how one cannot resist the pace of life as well as how experiences can break down life.
 
 
 
 
 
Going With vs Against The Current Paragraph
The function of going against the current is to show that defying the status quo can only lead to destruction. Going against the current can sometimes be commended, but in The God of Small Things, it only leads to death and destruction. In the book, there are a couple of examples of characters going against the current, both literally and figuratively. While the twins and Sophie Mol are trying to cross the river, they choose to go up the river instead of going with the current. This experience is described as if they were, “In the dark [and] they couldn’t see that they were in the wrong lane on a silent highway of muffled traffic.” (Roy 276) When going against the current, the kids are bombarded with objects; this leads to a log hitting their boat and Sophie Mol’s death. Another character who opposes the current is Velutha. He opposes the caste system by engaging in marches for Marxism and opposes the love laws by having an affair with Ammu. Opposing the current and rejecting the class norms created by the caste system is what gets Velutha beaten by the police. This is important because it helps portray Indian culture at the time period and how it is not only looked down upon, but actively destructive if one decides to go against the current.
 
Marxism and Casteism Paragraph
Marxism acts as a representation of how to overthrow ideals that are so culturally ingrained within a society. This is because Marxism fundamentally disagrees with casteism because of how Marxism views classes. However, because of the way Marxism is presented to characters in the story it doesn’t overtly disagree with the cultural norms. Even though Marxism at its core disagrees with the idea of classes and casteism is a prime example of classes and class struggle, “The Marxists worked from within the communal divides, never challenging them, never appearing not to.” (Roy 64) Saying that the group never challenged the communal divides is important because it shows how the ideology was able to grow and gain interest. Saying that the Marxists worked from “within the communal divides” also means that the group didn’t overtly challenge the class norms that existed in the community. In a town with an “extremely traditional community” (Roy 64) the idea of removing the caste system would be very unpopular. Because of how ingrained casteism is in the culture of many Indians, overtly being anti-class and anti-casteism would likely be impossible. This is important because it describes a way for how deeply ingrained cultural norms can hopefully be changed. Despite the fact that the caste system is still a part of the culture in India today, this can still act as an interesting insight into what it would take to change people's minds on cultural ideals that should be changed.
I often see the relationship between consumers and companies that produce products to be similar to the relationship between a state and its citizens. I’ve noticed this with my experiences with a trading card game and the company that owns the property. It often feels like a tyrannical government and there are some aspects of it that work very well and I think are beneficial to all people involved. But there are aspects of the relationship that are not healthy and I think make this type of relationship not feasible for an ethically concerned government. The relationship between Konami, the owner of the card game Yugioh, and the players of the game is similar to a tyrannical government. Konami is responsible for creating the infrastructure for the various levels of tournament play. This is like a government setting up all of the public infrastructures like power, water, education, health, etc. Here we find the first benefit of this relationship: citizens of the government don’t have to worry about setting these up or aiding in maintaining them. The company is also responsible for regulating the laws of the land in the form of the banlist. Again, the player base is not responsible for this like citizens would not need to worry about this in a society that is structured like this. Unfortunately, this is also where we find the first big problem. The players have no say in what cards go on or come off the banlist. This means that the reasons for changing the banlist are often rooted in Konami’s best interest rather than the player base. In terms of government, this could look like making laws that end up being self-serving. While just because a government can create laws without needing approval from citizens does not mean that the government will create self-serving laws that do not benefit the general population, there are no protections from a government from doing so. Konami also makes the cards from a game design perspective and they decide how hard the cards are to pull from packs; they choose how good the cards are and how rare they are. Cards have value that can change similar to how stocks can change in value on the stock market. So in this instance, the government would have almost absolute control over the economy and stock market. This means that the government can put protections in place so citizens are not completely left vulnerable. This also means that companies who also are likely to be self-serving are not in control of the economy. Of course, companies do have some control over their own stock through the decisions that they make, but they cannot control everything or how people choose to invest their money.
	The biggest problem with this is that the only way Konami is being checked by the player base is by the fact that people can choose to stop buying cards. But this is similar to a government being checked by whether people choose to leave the country. While most people say that they will quit the game because of a card that was printed or because of a banlist, people often won’t. While this isn’t nearly as serious as not being able to leave an oppressive country, the general idea is similar. The most obvious and historically prevalent way that governments have made themselves have to answer to the people it governs is by voting. But unfortunately, there are many problems that come with voting. Konami recently created a poll asking which deck should get support, but instead of choosing a deck that would further the state of the game or is beneficial to budget competitive players, people picked a deck that is historically very bad because people thought it would be funny. People also historically have chosen decks that already have a lot of support simply because they are fan-favorite decks. While citizens voting on serious issues may not vote because of jokes, a lot of money in America is spent on advertising for various political candidates and regulations. Plato said that “Appearance tyrannizes over truth.” and unfortunately I think that in terms of voting, this is the biggest reason that people’s voices aren’t truly heard when voting. An example of this in the real world is with the estate tax. The estate tax is the tax on inheritance and most people in the United States are in favor of having an estate tax for larger estates. However, Dick Cheney and George W. Bush changed the name of the estate tax to the “death tax” as it taxed the inheritance after people had died. Simply changing the name of a tax and a relatively large advertising campaign changed people’s perception of the tax enough to reduce the taxes significantly during the Bush administration. Here we see exactly how the appearance of the measure is much more impactful than the actual content of the measure. In a different way, this idea of appearance is also evident in the United States 2016 presidential election. In this case, Donald Trump was voted into office, and his biggest weapon at the time was how his perception at the time was both appealing to voters in areas that were beneficial through the electoral college and the fact that his perception caused the media to focus on him rather than the other republican candidates. Many people who voted for Trump say that they vote for him because he was perceived as a businessman and that he could run the country like a successful company. Machiavelli said that “Everyone sees what you appear to be, few experience what you really are.” and I think this sums up why I think that while voting is the most effective way to have people choose what they want the country to do and to keep politicians responsible, it can also cause problems based on how engaged and educated voters are in any given election.
	In order to keep elections as beneficial as possible, people need to be able to make informed decisions. Aristotle said, “Changes also take place from the ancient to the latest form of democracy; for where there is a popular election of the magistrates and no property qualification,” and the best way to make sure that people have the ability to vote based on merits and qualifications is by implementing a very effective education system. The relationship between education and voting still may not be immediately evident, but it’s as if someone who knew the basics of playing an instrument to write a song that takes advantage of advanced musical theory. While this person is writing their song, they will play notes and the song may be amazing, but they do not understand why the notes they are playing sound good. In addition, they may not choose notes that work well together. It is not reasonable for anyone to expect the song to intently use music theory. Likewise, people who haven’t been taught both how to think critically and to think critically cannot be expected to think critically when making decisions that will end up affecting an entire country. In addition to teaching children how to make critical decisions, I also believe that schools should teach about how to function in society. At least in most public schools in the United States, there are no classes on topics like how to file taxes, how to pay a mortgage, or even what laws exist in the country that will affect the students as they grow older and live life. Many people say that this is a job for parents to teach their children, but given that public education should be an equalizer for giving every student the greatest possible chance at life, I think that these should either be taught in a class or be integrated into the curriculum of other existing classes. Laws specifically baffle me because I don’t understand how a government can expect its citizens to follow laws if they aren’t universally understood. Aristotle said, “The best laws, though sanctioned by every citizen of the state, will be of no avail unless the young are trained by habit and education in the spirit of the constitution.” I don’t feel that the current public education system in the U.S. properly teaches young adults how to survive and function in the real world. Plato said, “Won't we say that due to lack of education dronelike desires come to be in him” and especially in the age of the internet, where misinformation is easy to pass off as legitimate, people need to know how to make informed decisions and the most effective way to do that is to improve education.
	Of course, people being able to make good decisions is only part of the equation when voting. The other side of it is making sure that citizens of a nation have access to all the relevant information needed to make these decisions. This transparency required is the least likely thing provided by any nation. What ruler wouldn’t want to be able to do anything they wanted without having to disclose all of the information to citizens. But just because this is unlikely doesn’t mean that it isn’t beneficial for the nation. While some things cannot be public, mainly during the war, but many aspects of the government should be more public. An example of this is when the United States was spying on its citizens with us being completely oblivious until Snowden leaked information relating to the KeyScore program. Things like this, where not just people of interest, but pretty much everyone has their privacy invaded, happen because the government has the ability to do so without needing to be transparent. Being transparent is also beneficial with regard to voting because it allows citizens to know who is responsible for specific actions. Another card game company, Wizards of the Coast, is very vocal about who comes up with different ideas and this allows the fan base to provide constructive criticism which allows that employee to grow. In real life, this would be allowing citizens to know exactly who does what and that would definitely affect their votes.
	Machiavelli said that “Men are driven by two principal impulses, either by love or by fear” and he believes that fear is the most effective way to control people. And while fear may be the best way to keep people under control, I believe that the best way to lead is by balancing the two. Overall, I believe that creating a good government is all about creating the perfect balance between control and freedom. What should the government control? What should its citizens control? And that balance may need to change over time. This means that through the benefits of an amazing educational system, people will be able to effectively vote and change their government for the better.

I often see the relationship between consumers and companies that produce products to be similar to the relationship between a state and its citizens. I’ve noticed this with my experiences with a trading card game and the company that owns the property. It often feels like a tyrannical government and there are some aspects of it that work very well and I think are beneficial to all people involved. But there are aspects of the relationship that are not healthy and I think make this type of relationship not feasible for an ethically concerned government. The relationship between Konami, the owner of the card game Yugioh, and the players of the game is similar to a tyrannical government. Konami is responsible for creating the infrastructure for the various levels of tournament play. This is like a government setting up all of the public infrastructures like power, water, education, health, etc. Here we find the first benefit of this relationship: citizens of the government don’t have to worry about setting these up or aiding in maintaining them. The company is also responsible for regulating the laws of the land in the form of the banlist. Again, the player base is not responsible for this like citizens would not need to worry about this in a society that is structured like this. Unfortunately, this is also where we find the first big problem. The players have no say in what cards go on or come off the banlist. This means that the reasons for changing the banlist are often rooted in Konami’s best interest rather than the player base. In terms of government, this could look like making laws that end up being self-serving. While just because a government can create laws without needing approval from citizens does not mean that the government will create self-serving laws that do not benefit the general population, there are no protections from a government from doing so. Konami also makes the cards from a game design perspective and they decide how hard the cards are to pull from packs; they choose how good the cards are and how rare they are. Cards have value that can change similar to how stocks can change in value on the stock market. So in this instance, the government would have almost absolute control over the economy and stock market. This means that the government can put protections in place so citizens are not completely left vulnerable. This also means that companies who also are likely to be self-serving are not in control of the economy. Of course, companies do have some control over their own stock through the decisions that they make, but they cannot control everything or how people choose to invest their money.
	The biggest problem with this is that the only way Konami is being checked by the player base is by the fact that people can choose to stop buying cards. But this is similar to a government being checked by whether people choose to leave the country. While most people say that they will quit the game because of a card that was printed or because of a banlist, people often won’t. While this isn’t nearly as serious as not being able to leave an oppressive country, the general idea is similar. The most obvious and historically prevalent way that governments have made themselves have to answer to the people it governs is by voting. But unfortunately, there are many problems that come with voting. Konami recently created a poll asking which deck should get support, but instead of choosing a deck that would further the state of the game or is beneficial to budget competitive players, people picked a deck that is historically very bad because people thought it would be funny. People also historically have chosen decks that already have a lot of support simply because they are fan-favorite decks. While citizens voting on serious issues may not vote because of jokes, a lot of money in America is spent on advertising for various political candidates and regulations. Plato said that “Appearance tyrannizes over truth.” and unfortunately I think that in terms of voting, this is the biggest reason that people’s voices aren’t truly heard when voting. An example of this in the real world is with the estate tax. The estate tax is the tax on inheritance and most people in the United States are in favor of having an estate tax for larger estates. However, Dick Cheney and George W. Bush changed the name of the estate tax to the “death tax” as it taxed the inheritance after people had died. Simply changing the name of a tax and a relatively large advertising campaign changed people’s perception of the tax enough to reduce the taxes significantly during the Bush administration. Here we see exactly how the appearance of the measure is much more impactful than the actual content of the measure. In a different way, this idea of appearance is also evident in the United States 2016 presidential election. In this case, Donald Trump was voted into office, and his biggest weapon at the time was how his perception at the time was both appealing to voters in areas that were beneficial through the electoral college and the fact that his perception caused the media to focus on him rather than the other republican candidates. Many people who voted for Trump say that they vote for him because he was perceived as a businessman and that he could run the country like a successful company. Machiavelli said that “Everyone sees what you appear to be, few experience what you really are.” and I think this sums up why I think that while voting is the most effective way to have people choose what they want the country to do and to keep politicians responsible, it can also cause problems based on how engaged and educated voters are in any given election.
	In order to keep elections as beneficial as possible, people need to be able to make informed decisions. Aristotle said, “Changes also take place from the ancient to the latest form of democracy; for where there is a popular election of the magistrates and no property qualification,” and the best way to make sure that people have the ability to vote based on merits and qualifications is by implementing a very effective education system. The relationship between education and voting still may not be immediately evident, but it’s as if someone who knew the basics of playing an instrument to write a song that takes advantage of advanced musical theory. While this person is writing their song, they will play notes and the song may be amazing, but they do not understand why the notes they are playing sound good. In addition, they may not choose notes that work well together. It is not reasonable for anyone to expect the song to intently use music theory. Likewise, people who haven’t been taught both how to think critically and to think critically cannot be expected to think critically when making decisions that will end up affecting an entire country. In addition to teaching children how to make critical decisions, I also believe that schools should teach about how to function in society. At least in most public schools in the United States, there are no classes on topics like how to file taxes, how to pay a mortgage, or even what laws exist in the country that will affect the students as they grow older and live life. Many people say that this is a job for parents to teach their children, but given that public education should be an equalizer for giving every student the greatest possible chance at life, I think that these should either be taught in a class or be integrated into the curriculum of other existing classes. Laws specifically baffle me because I don’t understand how a government can expect its citizens to follow laws if they aren’t universally understood. Aristotle said, “The best laws, though sanctioned by every citizen of the state, will be of no avail unless the young are trained by habit and education in the spirit of the constitution.” I don’t feel that the current public education system in the U.S. properly teaches young adults how to survive and function in the real world. Plato said, “Won't we say that due to lack of education dronelike desires come to be in him” and especially in the age of the internet, where misinformation is easy to pass off as legitimate, people need to know how to make informed decisions and the most effective way to do that is to improve education.
	Of course, people being able to make good decisions is only part of the equation when voting. The other side of it is making sure that citizens of a nation have access to all the relevant information needed to make these decisions. This transparency required is the least likely thing provided by any nation. What ruler wouldn’t want to be able to do anything they wanted without having to disclose all of the information to citizens. But just because this is unlikely doesn’t mean that it isn’t beneficial for the nation. While some things cannot be public, mainly during the war, but many aspects of the government should be more public. An example of this is when the United States was spying on its citizens with us being completely oblivious until Snowden leaked information relating to the KeyScore program. Things like this, where not just people of interest, but pretty much everyone has their privacy invaded, happen because the government has the ability to do so without needing to be transparent. Being transparent is also beneficial with regard to voting because it allows citizens to know who is responsible for specific actions. Another card game company, Wizards of the Coast, is very vocal about who comes up with different ideas and this allows the fan base to provide constructive criticism which allows that employee to grow. In real life, this would be allowing citizens to know exactly who does what and that would definitely affect their votes.
	Machiavelli said that “Men are driven by two principal impulses, either by love or by fear” and he believes that fear is the most effective way to control people. And while fear may be the best way to keep people under control, I believe that the best way to lead is by balancing the two. Overall, I believe that creating a good government is all about creating the perfect balance between control and freedom. What should the government control? What should its citizens control? And that balance may need to change over time. This means that through the benefits of an amazing educational system, people will be able to effectively vote and change their government for the better.

	The first use of the term computer comes from the 17th century and it simply referred to someone who “computed” mathematical calculations. But “modern” computers used to mean a big box with an even bigger tv stacked on top it and today, a computer can mean the RGB lighted tower, a cell phone, or even a watch. In today’s world, computers have become so commonplace that people rely on computers to complete many tasks. This, however, wasn’t always the case. In the past, computers have been exclusively used by companies for productivity and programming, and by home users for hobbies and games. This has led to the boom of the computer industry, computers have become more powerful, accessible, and easier to use. However, some positive aspects of computers have been lost.
	Computers have always been getting more powerful. In the 80s, computers were competing over price, power, and software library. These are really the same things computers are competing with now. The only difference is that somewhere around the late 90s and early 2000s users were able to start buying parts to build their own computer. This removed the emphasis on powerful computers (in the desktop industry) and put emphasis on powerful parts. However, this power-based arms race still exists today in prebuilt products mainly through cell phones and the current generation console wars. Literally today, the next generation of video game consoles are starting to fight over power and price. There is a joke about the power of computers, “Can it play doom,” and in today’s world, a watch can play doom.
	The accessibility of computers, as well as the accessibility of information through computers, has also increased since the 70s. Since the 80s, computers have been in libraries and schools but in both scenarios, the number of computers was relatively low on average. Beyond just having access to a computer, the portability and the ability to bring a computer with has gotten much better starting in the 90s where“modern” laptops started becoming commonplace. After laptops, the smartphone allows for the ultimate portability and accessibility as people now can use their computers to access the internet at any place or time. Computers have also been getting more accessible both at home and at school. I remember that my elementary school had multiple computer labs and time dedicated to learning about computers. In fourth grade, our class spent an hour every week to let us learn how to type effectively. Computers in education have become less of an elective and more of a required skill both in school and in the workplace. Even computer science tools that are more focused on businesses and hobbyists like 3D printers and CNC laser cutters are given to middle and high schools. Since the boom of the internet, people have had access to all the information that mankind has been able to provide (and fabricate.) 
	The first computers available on the market didn’t use graphical user interfaces. When you turned them on, you were greeted with a blank screen and a flashing cursor. In order to operate the computer, you needed to learn a programming language called BASIC or at the very least, the commands to start any software you loaded into the floppy drive. While some users did only learn the command load”*”, 8 but in order to do anything that didn’t exclusively run on external software, the user needed to learn many other commands. In today’s world, people use graphical user interfaces to operate their computers. The graphical user interface allows users to click on an icon rather than type in a command. This drastically decreases the learning curve required to operate a computer and allows new computer users to do more complicated tasks. Even though the graphical based operating system is what most computers boot to, the text-based user interface still exists. In fact, it’s still a very powerful tool that many people either don’t know about or think is too complicated to use. In my opinion, the command line isn’t as hard to use that people think and that sometimes, it can be simpler to use than the graphical user interface. Imagine how many times you’ve struggled to find a particular setting in a mess of settings menus. With the command line, someone can simply type a command and change the setting. If you’re wondering how to find the command, you can type help and browse all of the commands that the computer has to offer. If you still think that’s too much work, you can look it up online. Oftentimes, the placement of certain settings, are changed with operating system updates but the command line command stays the same. This means that the internet may say that a setting is somewhere when it actually isn’t. This has happened to me on more than one occasion and I personally have found the command line more useful in these and other situations.
	With all the great things that computers have gained in recent history, we’ve lost many things in terms of what computers do and people can do with their computers. While the graphical user interface is easier to use, people used to have much more access to the hardware level of computers when computers booted into BASIC. Computers have also shipped with worse manuals than they used to. While this is mainly because the learning curve has decreased with computers, it would still be nice if the instruction manual given with computers would have more information than the terms of the warranty. But, the most important thing lost with the age of easy to use computers is a lack of education with the hardware level of computers. Eben Upton created the raspberry pi because he noticed that students applying to study computer science at the University of Cambridge knew could do less and less impressive things on the computer by the year. 
	Computers make use of memory in the form of a bit: a register that can hold either a 0 or a 1. Back in the 50s, computers would need an assemble that was about 6 inches in height and included a vacuum tube to hold that single binary value. If we were to build a gigabyte of data with these bits, the computer would take up 1.5 cubic kilometers. If you wanted the same amount of hard drive space a modern computer uses, say 100 gigabytes. A hard drive of this computer would take up 1500 cubic kilometers. Instead, engineers have put 100 gigabytes on a card the size of my thumbnail. This improvement in technology shows how integral technology has become to our society as it likely would not have improved by this degree if society did not deem it necessary. Computers in society have grown in that they’re more accessible and widely used as they are much easier to use than those from the days of the Commodore 64.
Truman Capote wrote In Cold Blood for the general public to read about the Clutter family’s death. In order to write the book in the literary nonfiction format, Capote added aspects of fiction into the book including his biases. Truman Capote’s bias does not compromise the accuracy of the book because it uses information from the police throughout the investigation and trial, starts with a description of the Clutter family and Holcomb to give context to the reader, and uses his interactions with Dick and Perry and germane background information to influence how they are portrayed in the story. 
Throughout the book, Capote uses substantive information about the investigation and the trial. Truman Capote starts this by creating a very detailed portrayal of the crime scene. “Her hands were tied behind her, and her ankles were roped together with the kind of cord you see on Venetian blinds.” (Capote, 107), he adds detail to the point where he tells the reader knows how Nancy was tied and the material she was tied with. This amount of detail helps the reader create a picture of the crime scene and it allows them to start figuring out the order of events in terms of the crime. It is also important to note that Capote went over what the police saw in the crime scene rather than an order of events. Throughout the trial in the book, Capote makes sure to stay true to reality by having the court in his book adhere to the rules the courts would in real life. An example of this is when he explains why the prosecution was allowed to object, “citing the fact that Kansas law allowed nothing more than a yes or no reply to the pertinent question.” (Capote, 443). Information like this reinforces the reality of the story and allows the reader to understand what the trial was like even if a narrative lens has been put over it. Capote also includes the expert testimony during his portrayal of the trial. When talking about Perry, Dr. Jones mentions the “Two features in his personality make-up stand out as particularly pathological.” (Capote, 447). This not only would be true to the actual trial but also allows the reader to see what information in the trial was seen and how it was told to the jury.
In order to effectively give the reader context for the rest of the story, Capote starts by providing a description of Holcomb and the Clutters in a halcyon setting. Capote summarily starts with a location of Holcomb which is “Some seventy miles east of the Colorado border, the countryside, with its hard blue skies and desert-clear air, has an atmosphere that is rather more Far West than Middle West” (Capote, 18). This allows the reader to understand more context for the murders without any of Capote’s biases. Capote continues this by providing a description of Mr. “Clutter, was forty-eight years old, and as a result of a recent medical examination for an insurance policy, knew himself to be in first-rate condition.” (Capote, 21). Again, this allows Capote to give the audience information without giving his own biases. Capote also gives a description of the house saying that “There were four bedrooms on the second floor, and hers was the last at the end of a spacious hall, which was bare except for a baby crib that had been bought for the visits of her grandson.” (Capote, 56). This allows the reader to gain factual information regarding the location before the murders occur.
Capote spent time with both Dick and Perry, and he uses his interactions with them to determine how they act and speak throughout the story.  Capote even mentions Perry’s future thoughts about an event, “Perry, as he later recalled, thought, ‘Five kids--well, too bad.’” (Capote, 262). Because Capote says that Perry later recalled it can be inferred that this was a thought that Perry had later when talking to Capote rather than in the moment. By adding information like this, it overtly shows the audience exactly what Perry was thinking later. Capote also includes background information relevant to the story that was used in the trial. Capote uses Perry’s childhood to show the reader both sides of the story, the fact that Dick and Perry committed murder and that their background affected their lives and give information as to why they did. Capote mentions that at age seven Perry was “living in a California orphanage run by nuns—shrouded disciplinarians who whipped him for wetting his bed.” (148). This harsh animadversion would have affected Perry strongly in a negative way and definitely could have made him legally insane. Capote mentions this information before writing about the trial where this information is repeated by an expert witness, Dr. Jones mentions “His childhood, related to me and verified by portions of the prison records, was marked by brutality and lack of concern on the part of both parents.” (Capote, 447). Capote uses this to portray events from the trial and for the reader to understand the conditions of Perry’s background and how could have made him invidious. This allows the reader to get a less myopic view of the story as they learn both the facts of the crime and investigation as well as the background of the defendants. 
While giving background information from both Dick and Perry, Capote also gave his own biases with how he chose to portray both Dick and Perry. This can be seen as when talking about Dick he mentions that “Envy was constantly with him; the Enemy was anyone who was someone he wanted to be or who had anything he wanted to have.” (Capote, 304). This paints Dick in an unfairly negative manner that cannot be argued, Capote isn’t saying that Dick did something or endured something, he is saying that Dick is envious of almost anyone. One of the first things that Dick says in the books is “Whoa, honey, whoa. I seen that show. Ends up everybody nuts.” (Capote, 35). The diction that Capote chooses to use for Dick’s dialogue continues to portray Dick’s character in a way that makes the reader see Dick as an uncaring, arrogant murderer. While generally portraying Dick negatively, Capote tends to portray Perry as a nicer person. One way he does this is by saying that “Perry, whose voice was both gentle and prim—a voice that, though soft, manufactured each word exactly” (Capote, 48). Here, Capote is portraying Perry's voice in a positive way.
In Cold Blood was written so the Clutter family murders were portrayed to the public. Truman Capote achieved this by using a nonfiction narrative format which was used at the cost of including his biases. Despite this In Cold Blood can still accurately exhume the story of the Clutter family murders. This can be seen when Capote uses truthful information regarding the trial of Dick and Perry. When the prosecutor objects, Capote mentions that “citing the fact that Kansas law allowed nothing more than a yes or no reply to the pertinent question.” (Capote, 443). Capote uses true information throughout the trial as well as the investigation that the audience can use to create their own understanding of the events. Capote also starts the book with context for the audience by saying that Holcomb is “Some seventy miles east of the Colorado border, the countryside, with its hard blue skies and desert-clear air, has an atmosphere that is rather more Far West than Middle West” (Capote, 18). Providing the reader with more context, but in this case, without giving his own biases. In terms of how Capote portrays Dick and Perry, he provides background information for the characters. He mentions testimony from Dr. Jones who says, about Perry, that “His childhood, related to me and verified by portions of the prison records, was marked by brutality and lack of concern on the part of both parents.” (Capote, 447). This provides the audience with information about Perry’s life that will influence how the reader, as well as the jury, will see him and whether they believe whether he is legally insane or not. By using a description of the investigation and murders, context for the town and the victims, and providing relevant background information regarding Dick and Perry In Cold Blood can be used to learn about the events surrounding the murders of the Clutter family.
Importance of Family and Father Figures in Native American culture.
	Stories and objects created by societies can often reflect on the society’s values. These stories and objects, as well as accounts from an outside perspective, can allow one to glean information as to what values or morals exist in the society. The stories from Indian Legends of the Pacific Northwest, aAccounts of meeting Native American tribes from Lewis and Clark, and art from various Native American tribes emphasize tThe importance of family and the significance of the father figure in the family.
	The use of legends in Native American culture can often be to provide lessons to children, this can be seen as many of the myths in Indian Legends of the Pacific Northwest include lessons for a younger generation. This can be seen as in “Family gatherings around the winter fires, moreover, gave the elders of the group opportunity to pass on to the younger ones some of the sacred traditions of the tribe.” (Clark 132). This shows an example of how familial-like relationships in the tribe teach acquisitive children with these legends very similar to how parental figures may because elders are passing traditions to a younger generation as a parent would teach their children. As this shows the function of many of these legends, lessons, and indications of culture can be gleaned from them. In one instance, Coyote acts as a father-figure when “He showed the people how to rub two dry sticks together until sparks came. He showed them how to use the sparks to make chips and pine needles burn. And then showed them how to make a bigger fire from the burning chips and pine needles.” (Clark 189). In this legend, Coyote is teaching people how to build fire. This shows a relationship between Coyote and the people which is not dissimilar from a relationship between a paternal figure and children as Coyote is teaching the people skills required to survive and live independently. In this case, the legend teaches children that Ccoyote taught the people how to build fire and not that people discovered fire and this shows how legends portray parental figures. Indian legends also portray the vituperative punishments for those who don’t heed the warnings of a father-figure. In one story, a girl’s father tells her to “Be very careful when you get to the top [of a mountain]. Don’t put your head out” (Clark 10). However, the girl doesn’t listen and when she gets to the top “She put her head out of the hole and looked toward the west. The Wind Spirit caught her long hair, pulled her out of the mountain, and blew her down over the snow and ice.” (Clark 10). In this story, the curiosity of the daughter gets the better of her and due to this, the wind spirit pulls her to her downfall. This provides a lesson for children, listening to the paternal figure and not succumbing to curiosity is beneficial while ignoring the paternal figure will lead to downfall. 
	While on their peregrination, Lewis and Clark met with many Native American tribes and documented their experiences. When documenting their expedition, Lewis and Clark were attempting to communicate to American citizens and politicians what the Wwest was like. In many instances, Lewis and Clark find themselves talking and smoking with Native Americans but in one case “We [Lewis and Clark] caused all the old and brave men to set around and smoke with us. We caused the fiddle to be played and some of the men danced. After them the natives danced.” (Jones 378). This indicates a near familial relationship between people in the tribe. The convivial situation where the Native Americans were dancing and smoking with Lewis and Clark shows a sense of community and relationship. Oftentimes Lewis and Clark complain about items that they claim to have been stolen by a Native American tribe and in one instance, “I [Lewis] spoke to the chief on this subject. He appeared angry with his people and addressed them but the property was not restored.” (Jones 372). This indicates a relationship between the chief and the tribe that also is similar to that of a father and his children. The chief addressed his people about concerns over his people’s actions as a father might make a mandate to his children. The paternal relationship is embedded in the culture of the tribe in that the chief seems to have this type of relationship with his people. While the property wasn’t restored, the relationship is still valid as the chief addressesd his people about the stolen property. The familial relationship is also embedded in the culture of a tribe as the sense of community in a tribe is often shown through Lewis and Clark’s accounts. In one instance, Lewis mentions that “On the 16th 200 men gathered around them, singing and dancing; they went through the usual ceremonies, giving the chiefs medals, shirts, handkerchiefs, speaking to them in sign language of their friendly intentions.” (Jones 317). And like the earlier mention of the celebration Lewis and Clark's party had with men from a tribe, this also shows that there is a near familial relationship within those in a tribe. This example and the previous example of a celebration show that interpersonal relationships are important in Native American culture.
	Aspects of family are also visible through artifacts from Native American tribes. One such object is a mask with humanoid features where the humanoid features can help represent ancestors and warriors (Nuxalk). By delineating ancestors in celebrations with these masks, individuals in tribes are displaying the importance of family and familial ties to previous generations. An object that focuses more on family in the relative present is the bent-corner box which is a box embellished with intricate designs of a creature on the sides of the box, with the front of the creature on the front and the rear of the creature on the back (Haida). The true purpose of the design is unknown but it is alleged that the design is similar to a family crest and could serve a similar function as the designs on the box would help the owner or family that owns the box identify it. If this is the case, the box adds to the sense of ownership that a family would have together. Another object that may indicate the significance of family in Native American culture is an emaciated shaman dagger (Sayina). Because of its emaciated state and the design on the pommel, the dagger is impractical for combat but rather is more ceremonial as these daggers become heirlooms after being validated at a potlatch. The dagger is a symbol of the familial bond between generations.
	In 2007, Sherman Alexie wrote a novel called Flight, which follows a Zits, a half-Native American struggling with identity. In his journey for identity, Zits finds himself in the bodies of various different people from different times. This allows Zits to live through other people’s experiences. Zits' father leavesleft him when he was born and his mother died when he was young and Zits has been in many foster homes. This emphasis the Sherman Alexie places on family is unremitting throughout the story. At the end of the story, Zits finally finds a home and a family that cares about him and thinks to himself “I’m beginning to think I’ve been given a chance. I’m beginning to think I might get unlonely. I’m beginning to think I might have an almost real family” (Alexie 180). This shows the attachment to a family that is emphasized by Sherman Alexie through Zits. By not giving Zits a family, Alexie shows that the value of familial relationships is not picayune. Alexie also puts an emphasis on Zits' father, at some point in the story Zits actually goes into the mind of his father at a point in his life which allows Zits to confront his father about why he left. After recalling the memory of when Zits was born Zits' father thinks himself that “he cannot be a participant. He cannot be a witness. He cannot be a father. And so he runs.” (Alexie 156). Zits’ father leaving is a defining moment for both Zits and his father. For Zits, he no longer has a father nor a family and therefore is distraught throughout the book. For his father, it makes him lose control of his life, become homeless, and an alcoholic. When asked about this and how it relates to the stereotype of the alcoholic Indian, Alexie said that he “certainly get[s] tired of people calling the alcoholic Indian a stereotype. It's not. It's a cold, damp reality. We have a major problem with alcoholism among Native-Americans” (Alexie 207). This comes through in Flight as even Zits, a fifteen-year-old, calls himself an alcoholic. Alcoholism relates to Zits and his father as it is a main driver in both characters that prevented them from having a familial relationship as well as a relationship with each other. Sherman Alexie uses this point to show the importance of such relationships. 
	These sources act like puzzle pieces that need to be put together to find aspects of Native American culture. One of these values is the value of family as well as the importance of a father-figure as seen in Native American cultures. Flight reflects upon this with Sherman Alexie’s perception of family in the present. Examples of family in these sources, as well as Alexie’s reflection upon the value, construct the importance of family and the significance of the father figure in the family to Native Americans.
Kazuko’s relationship with her identity changes as she grows up and experiences trouble with the people around her as well as the society she lives in. As a child, Kazuko’s identity is largely determined by her parents and their decision to put Kazuko in Japanese school. Kazuko, at this time, doesn’t put as much significance on her culture as she does to other aspects of her life. This can be seen as when her parents tell her that they will spend the New Year honoring the Matsuis, Kazuko complains and asks if only her mother and father could go that year. However, Kazuko enjoys other celebrations her parents ask her to go to because they are more entertaining to Kazuko as a child. The first time when Kazuko notices the explicit racism some Americans had toward Japanese people is when her family is looking for a home near Alki Beach because of Sumiko’s illness. Her family goes around looking for houses to rent but cannot find one. Finally, her father is told that people in that area have never and likely will never sell or rent to Japanese people which makes Kazuko feel ashamed as she and her mother had gone from house to house asking about renting it. After her family does get a house in the area, Kazuko sees the racist nature of many people around her. She doesn’t like going through Chinatown because of shopkeepers glaring at her and making her feel uncomfortable, the insulting cartoons portraying Japanese people in newspapers, and people being concerned when the Japanese army was in the news. At this time, When Kazuko is confronted about her race, she says that she was born in America and is an American citizen. When Kazuko and her family are sent to Camp Harmony as part of the Japanese relocation act, Kazuko finds that her American citizenship is being challenged and taken by the American government and America as a society. Kazuko asks herself why she is being treated like a criminal, but without a trial and comes to the conclusion that her citizenship wasn’t real and didn’t know what she was a citizen of. Finally, when Japanese people are starting to be let back into the general population, Kazuko accepts a job as a dental assistant in Chicago. At this time and place, Kazuko is surrounded by people who don’t act in a racist manner around her. She finds that people are more curious about her race rather than confrontational. By the time Kazuko enrolls in Wendall college, the community she is apart of helps her combine her American and Japanese cultures into her identity. 

We all started clapping as students started flooding into the sandy grey soccer field of our school.
 “Give it up for the Mukilteo students who just walked all the way here,” said Mr. Wilson, our gym teacher. “Now we need to run over to Mukilteo elementary.”  
“Isn’t that where you’re going to school next year?” asked Michael
“Yeah”
“Why are you going there?”
“I’m going to join the gifted program”
“Oh”
	The sun was starting to shine through Washington’s signature rainy weather as summer was getting closer and closer. And that meant, as a 3rd grader, I could participate in the annual fund run. Every year, students from one school walk over to the other school and run back. This year, the Mukilteo students were walking first. 
	“We’re now passing around nametags, write down your name and what school you’re from” 
	After we all write our nametags we move to the starting line and get ready to start running. It’s very crowded at this point as there are students from two schools. Some of us are stretching, some are getting in a running position, and some students are simply talking to each other. I stay with my friends and we get ready to start running. The two gym teachers make their way to the starting line and get ready to start the fund run. 
	“On your mark, get set, go!”
	We all start running through my school’s soccer field and make our way to the fence that leads outside the school campus. The sand kicks up creating little dust clouds with every step and I start feeling the sand itching at my legs. The fence acts as a bottleneck as the students flow out of the campus like molasses. Once we make our way out, we start running onto the sidewalk that surrounds the campus of my school. We start running through the suburbs that surround my school. The sidewalks are crowded but my friends and I seem to be able to stay together. 
	“How are you feeling?”
	“So far, so good”
	“I’m gonna run a little faster,” Michael said as he starts sprinting through the crowd.
	Michael becomes absorbed in the crowd and I am no longer able to see him. My stomach starts to turn and I feel butterflies, thinking about leaving the school along with my friends. I look behind me at the endless sea of faces and recognize no one, all of my friends must have already passed me. I start kicking it into high gear to see if I can find anyone. I make my way near the front of the pack, I can see the two gym teachers leading the way. I must have passed my friends.
	“Hey!” 
	I hear my friend from behind me. He starts making up for the ground between us, once he catches up to me, he says, 
“Hey, when did you pass me?” 
I decide that this is a good time to say that I will miss my friends but as I begin to speak I again feel the butterflies in my stomach, I look forward and see that I have been saved by the bell. There is a tree quickly approaching us. I tilt my body weight to the right and avoid the tree now we’ve been separated by the tree and the crowd and I could no longer find my friend.
Normally at this point in a run, I would be drenched in sweat and tired but it was now cloudy, not raining but no longer sunny. I notice that my nametag has come loose, but before I can react, it falls off. I cannot retrieve it as I have already run a significant distance from it and I cannot go back because of the crowd. Now, no one can recognize which school I am from. As we approach Mukilteo, we are again bottlenecked by an entrance, I try to find my friends but we are all lost in the crowd. We enter the school campus and I grab my knees while panting. Now we are in an open space filled with grass so I attempt to find my friends. I find Michael and finally start talking about my situation with school
“Hey, I’m really gonna”
“Look, they have ice cream here”
I ignore that I’ve just been interrupted and decide that I’d rather just have some cold ice cream rather than deal with this now. So I’ll stall as I look up at the vast brick building and down at the stone sign that says “Mukilteo Elementary”

Truman Capote’s In Cold Bloodis too biased to be considered non-fiction.
May it please the court, counsel, ladies and gentleman of the jury.
Today we have before us the book In Cold Blood written by Truman Capote. The
question is whether or not it is too biased to be considered non-fiction. What are the
basics of the issue?
We know In Cold Blood is a retelling of events. It begins with the Clutter family living in
Holcomb going about their daily life. We then meet Perry and Dick as they are planning
what they call their “score”. Next Perry and Dick murder the Clutters, creating a
maelstrom of fear for the people of Holocomb. We then follow Perry and Dick’s journey
on the run, until they are caught in Las Vegas, Nevada. Once they are caught they are
interrogated, tried, and sentenced to death by hanging. The book ends with Perry and
Dick dead and the towns people of Holcomb returning to sound minds and life as usual.
How did Truman Capote write this book with such detail if he wasn’t there for all these
moments? He interviewed many people, including the murderers Perry and Dick.
As humans we all have biases. These things that live in our heads and become
ingrained in us at a young age. Whether they are expressed through our thoughts or
actions, they are always there. Have you ever been friends with someone and
immediately when hearing that someone was mean to them, you dislike that person?
That is because relationships are what build or break biases. Truman Capote, author of
In Cold Blood, gathered notes for years, but not on the Clutter family, on the murders of
the Clutter family, Dick and Perry. As he had been interviewing these two men for quite
some time it is presumed that he began to form propinquity with each of them, but he
shared the greater bond with Perry. We see this through Capote’s writing. Though his
empathetic use of Perry’s point of view, the delicate diction he chooses to use while
describing Perry compared to others, and how much the reader is told about Perry’s
backstory in comparison to Dick’s. Truman Capote’s relationship with Perry makes In
Cold Blood too biased to be considered non-fiction.
Where in the book do we hear about Perry’s perspective? Everywhere. Where do we
see Dick’s perspective? A few times, but nothing compared to Perry. Perry’s perspective
is the dominant voice of the two in this book. The book starts with Perry sitting in a cafe,
“Sipping and smoking, he studied a map spread on the counter before him-a Phillips 66
map of Mexico-but it was difficult to concentrate, he was expecting a friend, but the
friend was late,” it says on page fourteen. Dick, who we later learn is the “friend”, is
already being portrayed poorly. He is the “friend” that doesn’t care enough to be on
time. Truman Capote chooses to use the word “friend” indicating that the person who is
late is someone Perry cares about. He could have used the word “someone”, but he
chooses to use the word “friend”. We know that in today’s world someone being late is
considered rude, especially when it is someone that you care about. This is how Dick is
seen without the reader even knowing his name. As the book continues the theme of
hearing Perry’s side over Dick’s is extremely prevalent. We hear snippets of Perry’s life
story early on in the book. We hear about his time in jail and his experience with
Willie-Jay who had been his companion in prison. Willie-Jay had cared for Perry quite a
lot and Perry had never truly felt that before. We see Capote choosing to incorporate
this thought of Perry’s, “who had ever given a damn about him?” on page forty five.
Capote chooses to include this inner thought of Perry, but why? Have you ever felt
alone? Not cared for? He is pulling at the reader’s empathy. The feeling of loneliness is
something that every human feels at some point. By adding this detail it makes Perry
seem more human. By using the phrase “given a damn” it emanates feelings of anger
and sadness. This is because “damn” is a strong word, it is most usually used to
emphasise the feeling of frustration. In this particular moment this phrase is used as if “a
damn” is something just sufficient, the bare minimum. No one has cared for Perry even
at the bare minimum level. Without someone caring for you, you become vulnerable, in
turn this makes Perry seem vulnerable. This image of Perry, the lonely, sad, neglected,
and feckless depicts him as a character that one should feel for, sympathize with. What
happens if the reader connects to Perry? Will it make them dislike Dick more?
Especially most times when we here Dick’s thoughts they are something like this,
“annoyed. Annoyed as hell. Why the hell couldn’t Perry shut up? Christ Jesus, what
damn good did it do, always dragging the goddamn thing up?” this is on page one
hundred eight after Perry talks about their murder to Dick. Dick’s vulgar language
against this vulnerable character of Perry, makes Dick’s image tasteless for anyone. If
one were to be mean to a child vs another grown adult, which version would you be
okay with? The stark difference created by Capote between the vulnerable character of
Perry and Dick with his rude demeanor, highlights his preference of Perry over Dick.
The way Perry is depicted as an innocent creates a biased view of the story line. Perry
is thirty-one years old when he murders the Clutter family.
The diction Capote uses while talking about Perry verses Dick is softer which
makes Perry’s character more likable. The first time we meet Perry Capote is comparing
him to Mr.Clutter, “Like Mr.Clutter, the young man breakfasting in a cafe called the little
jewel never drank coffee” this is on page fourteen. Why would this be significant? Well,
who is Mr.Clutter portrayed as? A family man, holcombs most known citizen, and
someone who helps other people. He is known for being kind and understanding. By
Capote comparing these two men he is giving the reader the idea that Perry is like Mr.
Clutter, kind, understanding, and helpful. All these characteristics are positive, therefor
depict Perry as someone the reader might want to connect with more. Along with
Perry’s kind personality, he is depicted as someone who has a coherent mind. Capote’s
description of Dick’s appearance is, “an athlete constructed on a welterweight scale.
The tattooed face of a cat, blue and grinning, covered his right hand; on one shoulder a
blue rose blossomed. More markings, self-designed and self-executed, ornamented his
arms and torso...; and two sentimental concoctions-one a bouquet of flowers dedicated
to Mother-Dad, the other a heart that celebrated romance of Dick and Carol...” this is on
page thirty and thirty one. Alone this doesn’t seem too bad right? Until we get to the
description of Perry, “While he had fewer tattoos than his companion, they were more
elaborate-not the self-inflicted work of an amateur but epics of the art contrived by
Honolulu and Yokohama masters” we see this on page thirty one. In this Capote
dissembles Dick’s image to an overt extent. He is indicating that Perry is more
intelligent and thoughtful than Dick. The phrase “more elaborate” makes one believe
that Perry is capable of more complexity. The phrase “epics of art contrived by Honolulu
Yokohama masters” shows Perry’s thoughtfulness, that he chooses tattoos for a reason,
that they are “epics of art”. Dick is indirectly written about when Capote writes “not the
self-inflicted work of an amateur”. Capote thinks of Dick as cheap, unintelligent, and
impulsive. The “self-inflicted” part of that phrase shows that Dick is cheap, he won’t
even pay for his tattoos. The word “amateur” is often used as an insult to tell someone
that they are verdant. This is what Capote is inferring about Dick. It seems Capote has
a pejorative relationship with Dick. One could say that how he sees the two might
actually be reality, but later on in the book when the detective, Dewey, sees both men
for the first time, Capote’s perspective is completely contrasted. Seeing Dick, Dewey
thinks, “Clean, polite, nice voice, good diction, a pretty decent looking fellow...” on page
two-hundred-sixteen. Dewey sees  Perry as a,  ”chunky, misshapen child-man was not
pretty; the pink of his tongue darted forth, flickering like the tongue of a lizard. He was
smoking a cigarette, and from the evenness of his exhalations Nye deduced that he was
still a “virgin”...” on page two hundred twenty four. From this we can truly determine
Capote’s preference for Perry. In the descriptions that Dewey presents Perry comes off
as repulsive and the less respectful one. By comparing Perry to an animal it makes him
seem less human. Dewey’s description of Dick, on the other hand, is warm and kind. He
thinks Dick looks “clean” and “polite”. In addition, he says that Dick has “good diction”
this indicates that Dewey thinks he is smart. People with good diction generally are well
educated. This contrasts with Capote’s assertion that he is an amateur who doesn’t
think things through. Through these physical descriptions one can see how someone’s
bias towards another person can change how the reader views the character and the
plot line following them.
What do we know about Perry and Dick? We learn a substantial amount about
Perry and very little about Dick. We know that he had a hard childhood, that his mom
was a drunk, that she left and took all the kids, that she never liked Perry and that Perry
wanted to be with his dad. Once he is reunited with his dad we see the evolution of their
relationship ending in abuse. We see evidence of this as Perry tells the story, “he began
to take it out on me. Boss me around. Be spiteful. Say I didn’t do my proper share of the
work,” he says on page 135. We also know that Perry never actually killed anyone,
“When he’d told Dick that story, it was because he’s wanted Dick’s friendship, wanted
Dick to “respect” him...”, Perry confesses on page one hundred eleven. We know about
Perry’s past, but what do we know about Dick? While Perry gets pages and pages
about his life story, Capote consolidated Dick’s down to a small paragraph of dialogue
spoken by Dick’s father saying, “Dick was always the star player. A pretty good student,
too, with A marks in several subjects. History. Mechanical drawing. After he graduated
from high school-June, 1949-he wanted to go on to college,” on page one hundred
sixty-six. Why is history important for understanding a character? The history of a
person gives us reason for actions of the present. The more we know about Dick and
Perry the more reason one can give for their actions. Knowing Perry was a survivor of
abuse and many family deaths. There is more evidence as to why he ended up in this
place. Comparing this to Dick, who was a good student and a star player there is much
less reason for where he is. But that leaves the question of what hasCapote leave out
about Dick’s backstory? What were his hardships in life? We are only told that he has
had pretty good life. This idea that one’s past can be given as evidence for actions of
the present presents itself during the doctor testimonies on behalf of Dick and Perry.
lead to how they act in the present is prevalent when it comes to the two doctor
testimonies on behalf of Dick and Perry. The first we hear is Dick’s, “Richard Hickock is
above average in intelligence, grasps new ideas easily and has a wide fund of
information” found on page two hundred ninty four. Later the statement goes on to say
that he “shows signs of emotional abnormality”, but in comparison to Perry’s statement,
“Perry Smith shows definite signs of severe mental illness. His childhood, related to me
and verified by portions of the prison records was marked by brutality and lack of
concern on the part of both parents” on page two hundred ninty six, Dick’s statement is
lacking in depth. Dick’s statement is much less intense and light.  It even starts on a
high note, saying “he is above average in intelligence” where as Perry’s starts with
“shows definite signs of severe mental illness”. By starting with a more positive
statement it is a reasurrence that Dick is okay and able to succeed, whereas with Perry
it immediately begins with talking about his mental illness. The amount of backstory
given by Capote and the doctor both give at least some understanding for why Perry
committed the crime, but the lack of backstory for Dick and the brevity of his doctor’s
statement gives him no reason for his actions. The small amount of knowledge about
Dick’s past takes away from him and reason for his crime. This is Capote’s form of
justice, but he only gives it to one of them, Perry.
The opposing side may say that Capote’s affinity for Perry does not affect the
way he portrays the story or how the actual events played out. They may say that even
though Truman Capote has a bias towards Perry it in no way conflicts with how the
reader sees the story, but it does. In a story there are characters and within each of
those characters there is a story of its own. Capote uses stylistic mechanisms such as
softer diction around Perry and a large amount of backstory to give context for his
actions, which makes him into a real person, not just a character. It’s human nature to
not trust those that we don’t know. In this case, we know a lot about Perry, but when it
comes to Dick’s past Capote chooses to eschew it. Perry is the one to trust, so when
he questions himself, “‘I wonder why I did it.’ He scowled, as though the problem was
new to him, a newly unearthed stone of surprising, unclassified color. ‘I don’t know why,’
he said,” on page two hundred ninety,it is much easier to believe that he truly felt
confused. This small snippet shows Perry questioning his own judgement with an
innocence of confusion. When people reflect on their childhood there is always going to
be a moment of wondering why. Why didn’t I do that thing? Or why did I do that? This
question gives Perry that same relative innocence. Seeing him question himself is
something seen in many places throughout the book and paints him as an innocent.
This reassures the reader that Perry didn’t mean to do harm, he was unaware of his
actions in the moment. By the end of the book right before Perry is hung we read this,
“But after the warden asked if he had anything to say, his expression was sober. His
sensitive eyes gazed gravely at the surrounding faces, swerbed up to the shadowy
hangman, then downward to his own manacled hands. He looked at his fingers which
were stained with ink and paint, for he had spent his final three years on Death Row
painting self-portraits and pictures of children...” (Capote 340). Even through the end
we see Capote using gentle diction to describe Perry. Words like “sensitive eyes” and
“gaze” indicate a sense of sincerity and affection for Perry. The verb “gaze” is
associated with positive things like “stargazing”, “gazing at the sunset”, “gazing at her”.
“Gaze” is a verb of admiration. The eyes of a person are often referred to the “window to
one’s soul” by Capote saying that Perry’s eyes are sensitive he is almost implying that
Perry is sensitive, vulnerable, and innocent. Capote’s affinity with Perry, cause biases
that infiltrate the accuracy of the story. The majority of the book is based off of Perry’s
thoughts and opinions. Since most of what the reader is reading about is Perry, this
story does not deserve credence. Truman Capote does not tell all sides of the story
leaving us blindsighted to all the other truths that this story holds.

Throughout the history of literature different core archetypes have been developed. There
is the wise fool, the tragic hero, the outlaw, the innocent, and so many more that now appear in
various artistic representations. One of these archetypes is the “mad professor” or “mad
scientist”. These characters are often seen as insane or mentally ill, “but other times it’s not so
much that they’re mentally ill or psychopathic or even evil, but simply that their goals are wrong
according to the moral structure of the story” (Vyss). The story of Frankenstein is one of the most
famous examples of this archetype. Victor Frankenstein, so fascinated with the possibility of
bringing the dead back to life, ends up creating a monster. His compulsive need to know the
secret to life leads to his own misery. Locked up in a study, reading, calculating, experimenting,
this archetype becomes inured to isolation. Their drive for success separates them from reality
and when they are thrown back into it they no longer think alike with the society they live in.
Like Frankenstein, these “mad professors” and “mad scientists” are often left in torment due to
their unremitting need for knowledge. In Marlowe’s interpretation of Doctor Faustus, Faustus
plays the role of the “mad professor”; his obsession with omnipotence leads to the creation of his
own hell on earth. His image of success is unreachable and causes constant dissatisfaction,
self-isolation, and remorse.
Faustus is trapped in a state of being insatiable. Throughout this story, Faustus is in
search of something more. He wants more knowledge, more power, more praise and nothing
Eggler 2
seems to quench his needs. He begins by venturing into necromancy seeking the power of the
devil begging “divinity, adieu” committing sacrilege, showing that not even the divinity of God
is enough for him (Marlowe 7). Later, once he has damned his soul to hell and is given the power
of omnipotence for twenty-four years, he goes on to ridicule the Pope, the most respected earthly
symbol of religious purity. He cannot help himself, for the Pope represents a power over the
people that he will never have. Omnipotence the very thing that he believed would fulfill his
needs does not. There are no boundaries Faustus won’t cross in order to garner more power. In
the beginning of the play Faustus ponders about the purpose of living a studious life if it won’t
bring glory to the individual. He says, “Ay these are those that Faustus most desires./O what a
world of profit and delight,/O power, or honor, or omnipotence/Is promised to the studious
artisan?” (Marlowe 7). This shows Faustus feels the life he has lived as a “studious artisan” is
insufficient; it has gone unrequited. Faustus “desires” more than the human realm can provide.
He takes for granted all that is “promised” to the “studious artisan”. Not being satisfied with the
opportunity and experience he (Faustus) has been given he makes himself eternally miserable.
Nearing his end Faustus laments, “God forbade it indeed,/but Faustus hath done it./For vain
pleasure of four and twenty years,/hath Faustus lost eternal/joy and felicity” (Marlowe 95). “God
forbade it”, yet Faustus still went on in search of that “pleasure” which would hopefully satisfy
his soul, yet it ended up being a temporary “vain” fulfillment. He “lost eternal joy and felicity” in
return for that “vain pleasure”. Faustus’s need to feel satisfied pushes him to make the pact with
the devil, which leads him to harmful behavior that ends with his damnation. After realizing that
omnipotence is not satisfactory, all he is left with is the feeling of empty misery.
In addition, Faustus self-isolates himself leaving him with an ego that trumps his
common sense. Faustus plays the classic role of the professor that hides away from the world and
Eggler 3
slowly deteriorates into insanity. He is “the man that in his study sits” (Marlowe 4). Spending all
of his time alone studying “the end of every art”, his sense of social influence disappears
(Marlowe 4). He no longer believes anything anyone says and only listens to himself. He has
been trapped in his mind for so long that he can’t comprehend any other perspective, alienating
the people around him. After Faustus signs the deal with Lucifer, Mephistophilis, the servant of
Lucifer, explains what hell truly is. Despite the fact Mephistophilis is a divine being and has
lived in hell for most of his life, Faustus still believes “these are trifles and mere old wives tales”
(Marlowe 38). Faustus does not even believe the divine. He lives in his mind dismaying anyone
who does not tell him what he wants to hear or what he believes to be true. Anyone who tries to
warn Faustus or ask him to repent is met with Faustus’s predestination, deciding that he “must be
damned perpetually” because no one other than Faustus is correct in his mind (Marlowe 97). By
the end of the play we see one of Faustus’s scholars say, “Belike he is grown into some sickness
by/being over solitary” (Marlowe 94). This quote shows the origin of Faustus’s insanity of being
“over solitary” and suggests that Faustus has not been like this his whole life, but has “grown
into” it. It is a perpetuated “sickness” of the mind that Faustus is at fault for creating for himself.
Faustus has spent so much time alone that the only things he believes are his objects of study and
himself. Whenever he is given advice or warning from another, he never listens and is now left to
the misery of hell because of that. He starts the play alone and ends the play lonely saying
“farewell” to his life and all the people in it (Marlowe 97).
Faustus’s decision to make a deal with the devil leaves him engulfed in regret and guilt
throughout the play. Although Faustus seems concrete in this decision, there are many instances
that would beg to differ. Before Faustus even makes the deal he seeks the guidance of his friends
“[requesting] them earnestly” (Marlowe 8). Faustus’s exigency for an outside opinion to validate
Eggler 4
this decision shows he has never full-heartedly believed that it is the right one to make. Despite
his wavering confidence, he summons a devil and demands that he (the devil) “[g]o and return an
old Fransciscan Friar” (Marlowe 18). Faustus declares that the devil’s original appearance is “too
ugly to attend on [him]” (Marlowe 18). Faustus is dismayed by the appearance of the devil and
needs the appearance of a holy being such as a “Fransiscan Friar” to “attend on [him]”. The ugly
appearance of the devil is a shocking reality that Faustus cannot handle. He (Faustus) asks for the
appearance of the Friar because a holy figure is more comforting than a devilish one to him,
showing his own subconscious preference for Godly divinity over devilish divinity. Later once
Faustus has made the deal he calls out to “Christ [his] savior” and asks him (Christ) to “save
distressed Faustus’s soul” (Marlowe 50). This is a complete reversal of wishes. He calls on
holiness once again to save him from his damnation. His oscillating between believing that
making the deal was the right decision and that it is the wrong decision, shows that it was not the
right decision. When Faustus is nearing the hour of his death he speaks to his scholars saying,
“Faustus hath lost/both Germany, and the world,/yea heaven itself, heaven the/seat of God, the
throne of the blessed,/the kingdom of joy, and must remain in hell forever,” (Marlowe 94).  This
quote holds a mournful tone as Faustus recites the litany of the things he has “lost” because of
his deal with the devil. He has not only lost the living world but the bliss of “heaven itself”.
Faustus laments in agony knowing that he “must remain in hell forever”. Although the use of the
word “must” acknowledges that Faustus has come to terms with his demise and the permanence
of his misery, still the remorse over his actions haunts him. In sorrow, he is sent to hell thinking
of “the branch that might have grown full straight” (Marlowe 100).
Faustus damned to hell by his own volition, doesn’t realize that he is already living in it.
He obsesses over a life of omnipotence, of power, of knowledge so much so that he ends up
Eggler 5
losing everything that truly holds value. His last years on earth are filled with dissatisfaction,
self-isolation, and remorse ending with his damnation and eternal torment. Faustus is an effigy of
misery. He is caught in a toxic cycle in which his need to know leaves him mulling in constant
anguish. His character, the “mad professor” seeps into a narrative that knowledge is not the most
important part of living. That knowledge is not always at the forefront of life. These characters
fall into madness because of their drive to know. They forget how to connect with humans. When
they are thrown back into reality societal boundaries are a taboo concept to them and nefarious
behavior ensues. Without people to influence the way we perceive the world, we start to see the
world only from one perspective, our own. We learn from others, listen to others, and from that
we can see what a “good” decision would be and a “bad” decision would be. Faustus shows that
knowledge is not the most powerful force, human connection is; without it madness and misery
ensue.
Katie Chao 
Dr. Micah Tillman 
OMSB9 
May 25th, 2018 
MSB Spring Final Project: How Does 
Phone Usage Affect Sleep in High School Students? 
Introduction: 
Adults who grew up before the innovation of smartphones often scold adolescents for  their incessant use of smartphones in their daily lives. My parents remind me nearly every day  that if I use my phone too much during the day, I won’t be able to sleep that night. This constant,  somewhat annoying reminder got me wondering: is there really a correlation between the  variables of the time you spend on your phone, and the time you sleep at night for high-school  students specifically? 
Some studies that have previously been conducted tiptoe around my question, such as a  2012 study by Klodiana Lanaj, Russell E. Johnson, and Christopher M. Barnes which researched  the consequences of late-night smartphone use and how it affects your energy-level and behavior  at work the next day. Their study concluded that across two samples, smartphone use reduced  daily work engagement in adults via sleep and depletion. 
I decided to study whether this conclusion held true for the arguments my parents made  against using my phone continuously throughout the day and find out whether phone usage  throughout the day was negatively correlated with how much you sleep the following night.  My initial hypothesis is that phone usage will be negatively correlated with the amount of sleep;  the more a participant uses their phone, the less they will sleep that night. Also, I hypothesize 
that Stanford OHS students will have a higher mean phone usage (and thus a lower mean amount  of sleep) than brick-and-mortar students due to the nature of online schooling.  
Materials and Methods: 
In order to test whether the variable of phone usage time throughout the day has an effect  on the amount of sleep one gets the following night, I measured the daily phone usage and sleep  times of eight high-school-aged participants. Four of these participants are full-time students at  Stanford Online High School, and the other four are full-time students at brick-and-mortar high  schools around the Seattle area, creating two subgroups of  
participants of a similar demographic, but a drastically different  
lifestyle. My data collection period lasted five nights, from the  
morning of April 22nd to the morning of April 27th, in order to  
acquire relatively representative data of each participant’s  
average phone usage and sleep time from each night/day. 
To record an accurate measurement of the amount of time  
each participant used their phone in each day of the data  
collection period, participants used a smartphone app, titled  
Moment, which accurately tracks phone usage throughout the  

day down to the nearest minute. Each participant kept the  Moment app running on their smartphones 24 hours a day from  Sunday, April 21st through Thursday, April 26th. At the end of  
Figure 1: example screenshot of  the Moment app displaying  phone usage times during the  data collection period

the data collection period, each participant sent a screenshot (see Figure 1) of the Moment app  displaying that participant’s phone usage measurements from each day. Each participant’s phone  usage time was recorded on a ratio scale of minutes. 
To record a roughly accurate measurement of the amount of time each participant slept  each night of the data collection period, each morning starting on Monday, April 22nd and  
ending on Friday, April 27th, I contacted each participant, and they self-reported as accurately as  possible how many hours of sleep they got the previous night. Some of the participants used a  more accurate device that was able to track their sleep time, such as a smartwatch, and the rest of  the participants self-reported their amount of sleep based on approximately what time they fell  asleep and what time they woke up. Each participant’s sleep time was recorded on a ratio scale  of minutes. I compiled my data into a spreadsheet as shown below in Figure 2 in the “Data and  Statistical Analysis” section. 
There are a handful of uncontrolled variables I was not able to account for; these include  inaccurate sleep time reporting by the participants or an error within the moment app that may  have caused the phone usage measurement to be inaccurate. Additionally, it is possible that there  is a discrepancy in the effects of phone usage during the day (i.e. While out and about; during  daylight) and phone usage during the night (i.e. while sitting in a dark room, lying in bed). As the  Moment app does not specify the time of day in which phone usage occurred, only the amount, I  was unable to account for this potential factor that may affect how phone usage affects sleep.
Data and Statistical Analysis: 

Figure 2: Spreadsheet showing all collected data for both phone usage and sleep time, along  with the mean of each variable for all eight participants, the mean of each variable for brick and-mortar students, the mean of each variable for Stanford OHS students, and the population  means for each variable. 
As mentioned previously, the two variables I studied in each of my eight participants  were daily phone usage and nightly sleep time, observed over a period of five days and nights.  Both of these measurements (measurements of time, made in hours and minutes) are on a ratio  scale. See Figure 2 above for a spreadsheet containing all raw data obtained in my study. To analyze the raw data I obtained, I made use of two different statistical tests: The  
Spearman Rank Correlation Coefficient (SRCC), and the Mann-Whitney U-Test.  
The SRCC is a correlation coefficient that is non-parametric, and thus applicable to a  wide variety of datasets. The SRCC is applicable to data on ordinal, interval, and ratio scales,  and ideally the sample will have 5-30 pairs of observations. The SRCC is intended to show  whether there is evidence of a statistically significant positive or negative correlation between  two variables. I opted to use this non-parametric correlation in order to avoid making  assumptions about my data which could skew the results. Thus, it is well-suited to my goal of 
determining whether there is a correlation between the variables of phone usage and amount of  sleep. The null hypothesis in the SRCC is that there is no statistically significant evidence of a  correlation between the two variables of phone usage and amount of sleep. If our correlation  coefficient is below our critical value, we would consider our result not statistically significant  and accept our null hypothesis, and if it exceeds the critical value, we would consider our result  statistically significant and reject our null hypothesis. 
The Mann-Whitney U-Test is a non-parametric technique for comparing the medians of  two unmatched samples. The Mann-Whitney U-Test can be used for samples with as few as four  observations and makes no assumptions about the distribution of the data. The Mann-Whitney U Test is applied on ranks. I used the Mann-Whitney U-Test twice, once for comparing the phone  usage amounts between the two sub-groups of OHS and brick-and-mortar students, and once for  comparing the sleep amounts between the two sub-groups of OHS and brick-and-mortar  students. The null hypothesis in both Mann-Whitney U-tests is that there is no statistically  significant evidence that the two subgroups of OHS and brick-and-mortar students come from  populations with different mean phone usage amounts and sleep amounts. In other words, the  null hypothesis is that the two subgroups of OHS and brick-and-mortar students come from a  population with the same mean phone usage and sleep amount. If our calculated U-statistic  exceeds the critical threshold, we will accept our null hypothesis that the two samples/subgroups  come from a population with the same mean. If our U-statistic does not exceed the critical  threshold, we will reject our null hypothesis, and conclude that the two samples/subgroups come  from separate populations with different means. 
The result of my SRCC test was a correlation coefficient of -0.381, below the critical  value of .886. Given that the coefficient was below the critical value, we know that our result is 
not statistically significant, so we will accept our null hypothesis that there is no evidence of a  correlation between the variables of phone usage and amount of sleep. 
The result of my first Mann-Whitney U-Test, a comparison between the phone usage of  the two sub-groups of OHS and brick-and-mortar students, was a U-statistic of 5, exceeding the  critical threshold of 0. Thus, we will accept our null hypothesis that there is no statistically  significant evidence that the two subgroups in my sample come from separate populations with  different mean daily phone usages.  
The result of my second Mann-Whitney U-Test, a comparison between the nightly sleep  amounts of the two sub-groups of OHS and brick-and-mortar students, was a U-statistic of 5,  exceeding the critical threshold of 0. Thus, once again we will accept our null hypothesis that  there is no statistically significant evidence that the two subgroups in my sample come from  separate populations with different mean nightly sleep amounts.
Despite the fact that my statistical tests showed that: 
a) There is no statistically significant correlation between the variables of phone usage  and sleep amount. 
b) There is no statistically significant evidence that OHS students and brick-and-mortar  students come from populations with different mean phone usages and amounts of  sleep. 
I noticed that there was a visible trend in the mean values obtained directly from my raw data:  see Figure 3, where it is evident that OHS students indeed have a higher raw mean phone usage  than brick-and-mortar students by approximately one hour per day, and also have a lower raw  mean nightly sleep amount than brick-and-mortar students by approximately one hour per day.  This potential correlation, while it might not provide much evidence about the means of the two  subgroups relative to each other, does provide evidence that a rise in one’s daily phone usage  may be correlated with a decline in one’s nightly amount of sleep. 

Figure 3: A noticeable trend is present in the raw mean phone usage 
and sleep amount values for each sub-group within my 8-participant sample. 
To further elaborate on this trend I noticed, I took the average amount of sleep and the  average amount of daily phone usage from each of my eight participants and plotted those eight  data pairs on a scatter plot. I then drew a regression line (Y = -0.2083*X + 509.6) using the  formula for Simple Linear Regression (see Figure 4).

Figure 4: Scatter plot* of the eight data pairs obtained from the mean daily phone usage and  sleep time from each of the eight participants, including a regression line calculated using  Simple Linear Regression 
*Note that for viewing purposes, the y-axis 
of the graph does not display values below y = 200 minutes. 
In the scatter plot shown in Figure 4, it is evident that there is a slight negative correlation  between variables. The regression line has an insignificant, but very much present deviation from  horizontal, indicating that a correlation is present, although it is not statistically significant.
Discussion: 
The result of my Spearman Rank Correlation Coefficient test was a coefficient of -0.381,  below the critical value of .886 as mentioned above. This is evidence that there is no statistically  significant evidence of a correlation between the variables of mean daily phone usage and  nightly amount of sleep, although I noticed in the scatter plot with a regression line that a weak  negative correlation does indeed exist within the data obtained from my eight participants. It is  likely that had my sample size been much larger, say 150 participants instead of 8 (in which case  I would have to use the parametric Product Moment Correlation Coefficient due to the SRCC’s  upper limit of 30 pairs of observations), this negative correlation would have proved to be  statistically significant. Therefore, my initial hypothesis for this aspect of my project (that phone  usage will be negatively correlated with the amount of sleep; the more a participant uses their  phone, the less they will sleep that night) was reasonably correct, in that a weak negative  correlation was present. However, my sample size was too small for it to be shown as  statistically significant by the correlation coefficient. 
The results of both Mann-Whitney U-tests showed that the two subgroups within my  sample, a subgroup of OHS students and a subgroup of brick-and-mortar students, had no  discrepancy in their mean daily phone usages and nightly sleep amounts. Therefore, my initial  hypothesis for this aspect of my project (that Stanford OHS students will have a higher mean  phone usage [and thus a lower mean amount of sleep] than brick-and-mortar students due to the  nature of online schooling), was proved false by my statistical tests. 
A study may show more conclusive results (e.g. a regression line that agrees with a  correlation coefficient) if a larger sample size were used; in my study of the correlation between  these two variables I was only able to record observations from eight participants, whereas a 
much larger sample (still incorporating data from both OHS and brick-and-mortar students)  would provide a much more representative analysis of the populations as a whole.  Additionally, as mentioned in “Materials and Methods,” I was not able to account for the  variable of what time in the day the majority each participant’s phone use occurred, and as  mentioned in the study conducted by Klodiana Lanaj, Russell E. Johnson and Christopher M.  Barnes (as mentioned in my introduction; see “References” for further details), phone use late at  night may have a more drastic effect on sleep than phone use that occurs during daylight hours.  
A study with access to more accurate means of measurement may be able to account for  the time of day in which the bulk of the participant’s phone usage occurs. A potential way to do  this might be to separate each day into 12 2-hour blocks and record the phone usage that  occurred in each individual block. The resources I had available to me (e.g. free smartphone apps) did not offer this level of information, although a larger study with more available  resources (perhaps a programmer who could create an app specifically to record the desired data  from each smartphone) would likely be able to come to more specific and definite conclusions  than my study. A study like this would allow the acquisition of a definite confirmation of my two  initial hypotheses, as well as make specific claims about aspects of the “smartphone effect,” such  as what time of day the influence of smartphone usage on sleep is the strongest, what time of day  the influence is the weakest, or what you can do to reduce the effect smartphones have on your  sleep beside decreasing your use of them. 
References: 
- Study by Klodiana Lanaj, Russell E. Johnson, and Christopher M. Barnes referenced in  sections “Introduction” and “Discussion”: 
o “Beginning the workday yet already depleted? Consequences of late-night  smartphone use and sleep” (received August 2012, accepted January 2014,  published February 2014) 
o https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0749597814000089

    
Chao 1 
Katie Chao 
George Heinrichs 
H420 – Political Philosophy 
May 25th, 2021 
Introduction 
The political identity of contemporary American society is defined by individualism and the hand such a perspective lends to success within a stratified capitalist framework. However, it is not the existence of the lone man himself that obliges him to live his life with virtue and dedication to those with whom he coexists; it is the existence of those others that consummates the human psyche to endorse a willful collective. In the following document I will outline the frameworks and principles of what I believe to be the “ideal” human society as informed by a number of philosophical works from the 400’s BCE to the 19th century CE. 
In an idealized society, one will live their life with courtesy, respect, and consideration towards others, but still be allowed to pursue their individual interests and goals as is reasonable. The primary values of life, liberty, prosperity, equality, and compassion will constitute the behavior of this ideal society. 
State of Humanity 
The primary concern of the ideal society should always be to minimize suffering, and minimize or, if possible, eliminate the grievances that plague society both domestic and international. Human rights (as outlined by the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights) must be upheld in every circumstance, and this fundamentally includes the eschewing of supremacy. “A part of the bourgeoisie is desirous of redressing social grievances, in order to
Chao 2 
secure the continued existence of bourgeois society” (Marx, Communist Manifesto), and therefore the act of continuously working towards the absence of grievances serves to not only prevent the existence of a ruling “bourgeoisie” class, but additionally to “secure the continued existence” (ibid.) of a fair and equal society. 
The ideal society shall invest significant time, effort, and resources into the well-being of not only the well-being of humanity, but of humanity’s co-habitants and environment as well. Beyond striving to ensure peace, prosperity, and happiness among human beings, the ideal society must also strive to preserve, protect, and attempt to minimize interference with all other living beings on the planet. Thus, preservation and conservation of natural environment and resources must be a priority for the ideal society. For society to thrive, the natural world and all other beings we share the planet with must thrive in turn. 
The ideal society should not interfere with affairs that do not immediately concern itself (with the exception of human suffering, which cannot be ignored–see the Goal of the Government), and shall refrain from imposing unwarranted input and action upon the ideals of others. Action shall be solely motivated by the objective reality created by ideals, for “If the determination of will rests on the feeling of agreeableness or disagreeableness that he expects from any, it is all the same to him by what sort of ideas he will be affected” (Kant, The Critique of Practical Reason). 
Education 
The goal of education shall be to set forth independent thinkers that share a common mind for the well being of others and the utilization of knowledge not just for their own benefit, but for the benefit of society as a whole.
Chao 3 
The education system shall be structured such that all students, regardless of geographic location, socioeconomic status, age, sex, race, family structure, neurological diversity, or any other characteristic, are provided equal opportunity to study and thrive with no less than the utmost quality of education society can provide. All educational institutions shall be publicly owned and publicly funded by taxation (see Economic Belief), and provide their services free of charge to the student and their families. Higher education (ages 18+) shall not be based upon meritocracy, but rather randomly assigned in order to create a rich and diverse microcosm of society within a smaller learning community. The establishment of private learning institutions shall be prohibited. 
Within the education system, the main goal shall be to equip all students with the skills and foundational knowledge necessary to discover and explore personal academic and career interests to the fullest extent possible. Until age 18, all students shall be required to participate in a “core” curriculum encompassing sufficient exposure to the broad academic disciplines of the humanities (including the more nuanced branches sociology, politics, government, economics, etc.), science, technology, math, foreign language, and art (e.g. creative expression by any medium: visual arts, music, dramatic arts, physical arts, etc.). Compulsory education shall focus on studying the state of the world through a lens of critical analysis informed by both history and novel thought, for “How we live is so different from how we ought to live that he who studies what ought to be done rather than what is done will learn the way to his downfall rather than to his preservation” (Machiavelli, The Prince). 
Success in the compulsory education system shall be determined not by advancement in comparison to one’s peers, but rather by one’s personal progress throughout their tenure as a student. For this reason, the educational system shall house comprehensive records enabling a
Chao 4 
committee of professional adults to regularly review a student’s progress, and make recommendations to the student’s family and the student’s instructors regarding how to best support the student to encourage personal growth. 
Higher education (for students above the age of 18) shall be optional, and if one elects to pursue it, shall place an emphasis on specialization in a particular field. The student shall choose their own area of focus, but will still be required to continue their study in other general academic disciplines, as the plenary mind is one that may capture, conceptualize, and reconcile differences of opinion and virtue (“...it is bad to stop, hard to be satisfied with a single way of seeing, to go without contradiction, perhaps the most subtle of all spiritual forces” (Camus, The Myth of Sisyphus)). 
After completing compulsory education and pursuing higher education if desired, each student shall be fully equipped to participate in all activities of society to at least some degree, both general and esoteric. 
Goal of The Government 
The goal of the government shall be to organize society at large by way of a truly representative subset of the people, which shall be tasked with assessing the State of Humanity and the Economy as it stands (determining to what extent the individual may accumulate capital before an upper threshold of wealth is reached and the surplus must be devoted to subsidizing those less fortunate), thereby promoting and enforcing just behavior, as “The just is the advantage of the stronger, and the unjust is what is profitable and advantageous for oneself” (Plato, Republic, Book I). The governing subset shall consist of both lawful citizens and non-citizen residents, and encompass an equal distribution of capital across seats (see Economic
Chao 5 
Belief). The primary purpose of the government is, first and foremost, to pursue equality, justice, and opportunity for all. 
Beyond preserving economic sanctity and inexhaustibly working towards the prosperity of all members of the public, the governing subset shall tend to matters including but not limited to the judicial system, legislation, foreign policy, maintaining the quality of education, and providing politically unaffiliated humanitarian aid. 
In the legislative field, the governing subset shall strive to create laws that uphold the virtues of society, and work to prevent behavior that harms others and contradicts the values of society. The governing subset will craft and present law proposals informed by the regularly surveyed opinions of the general public, and such proposals will be voted on by the democratic society as large. Laws must be agreed upon by at least a ? majority of a willfully voting populous. 
In terms of judiciary processes, the governing body shall strive to enforce the laws in place in a manner which centers on education, rehabilitation, and growth above all. There shall never be a death penalty or life sentence given, and consequences for violating the law shall be determined with respect to the development needs of the individual. Consequences may include time spent in a reformative community to focus on personal reflection and contemplation, remedial educational requirements, service to the community, or psychological and/or physiological treatment. 
With regard to foreign policy, the governing subset shall not strive to attain power over other nations, nor exert influence over business that is not strictly its own, with the exception of attempting to prevent human suffering to the fullest extent possible. “Those who wage just wars
Chao 6 
intend peace” (Aquinas, War), however peace shall be defined as the absence of suffering; if there exists suffering in the world, there is no peace (see State of Humanity). The governing subset shall devote substantial wealth (acquired by taxation of the population) to maintaining and constantly improving the quality of education across all of society. Resources will be devoted to renovating curriculum to better represent the widest possible variety of opinions and virtues, and training and supporting the best personnel and facilities possible to instruct and support students. 
With regard to humanitarian aid, the governing subset shall devote as much resources as is reasonable towards providing any relief that may be necessary–including food, water, medicine, and shelter. The recipients of humanitarian aid shall be given no preference based on political allyship or adversaryness, and who receives aid shall be determined by what option allows the same sum of capital to help the most people, most effectively. 
The governing subset shall completely reform itself in body regularly (at least twice within a ten year period), and no individual may serve twice on the governing subset. 
Economic Belief 
Capital exists to empower actionability in citizens, though possessing a surplus of capital shall provide no substantial benefit to the holder. While “It is just to give to each what is owed” (Plato, Republic, Book I), there exists a threshold of wealth upon which excess accumulation is of no true benefit to the holder besides aesthetics, and their quality of life can no longer substantially improve. Upon reaching this threshold, 100% of one’s excess wealth shall contribute solely to the good of others rather than the good of oneself. Trade and commerce shall take place so that the population can obtain what they need and desire as determined by their own agenda, and nobody else’s. “To take more than you need is to encroach on the rights of
Chao 7 
others” (Locke, Second Treatise, 51), and as such, the governing body shall monitor the state of the economy on both a macro and micro scale, and ensure that no single party is allowed to achieve supremacy by way of accumulation of capital. Instead, the “rich” and the “poor” shall hold power hand in hand, and prioritize the virtues of all above their own socioeconomic status. 
This economic belief shall inform and define who constitutes the governing subset (see Goal of the Government) by way of equalizing representation of economic power in terms of capital possessed. For example, if the most wealthy member of the governing subset possesses 5 “wealth credits,”1 he shall be balanced by five members of the governing subset possessing 1 “wealth credit” each (holding the governing subset to the standard of every citizen having at least 1 “wealth credit”). The median “wealth credit” score shall be determined by the mode, and from this center point, an equal balance of economic power shall be represented on each side. Such balancing must occur to ensure that where the poor lack in economic resources (and therefore economic influence), they succeed in numerosity of opinion, and where the rich thrive in economic resources, they are offset by being represented as no more than the minority they represent. The economy shall be constituted as such in order to appropriately and reasonably regulate the potential “bourgeoisie” so that there is never a citizen who involuntarily lives in abject poverty while others reap the benefits of a redundant excess of wealth. This alignment is to the moral and philosophical benefit of both the proverbial “poor” and “rich,” “For either envy of [the rich’s] greatness draws [the poor] into rebellion, or [the rich] themselves, in their pride of superiority, are unwilling to remain on a level with others” (Aristotle, Politics, Part IV). The power of the governing subset to moderate and redistribute wealth serves to prevent unnecessary 
1 Not a literal “credit” in the form of currency–refers instead to the nature of some having more wealth than others, and such a discrepancy is represented in numeric terms for logical simplicity.
Chao 8 
conflict and uphold the general mindset of achieving “success” far beyond one’s immediate and individual self. 
Taxation shall occur, with the amount each individual pays being determined by the amount of capital they earn and require to subsist (i.e. the “poor” shall pay as little as possible so that they may devote their income to providing for themselves and their family, and the “rich” shall pay comparatively more, as they already possess more than enough capital to survive and thrive). 
Conclusion 
The ideal society must uphold and protect its values on both a domestic and international level, whether the matter be menial or grave. The ideal person will devote their existence not to solely themselves, but to others as well, and live with the desire to support others in their community in the way they themselves have been supported.

When you reflect on your work completing this assignment, what stands out for you? 
I had a frustrating time trying to figure out the extra credit problem, but I think I found a  workable solution eventually.
1. Quorum sensing is a system of signaling correlated to population density. It requires 1) a  means of assessing the number of other individuals present, and 2) a standard response  once a threshold is met. Some examples of how this is used include populations of  bacteria coordinating gene expression, and social insects determining where to live.  Those of you interested in physics and engineering can I am sure imagine applications  with large numbers of small independent robots (drones, anyone?). For our purposes,  consider the bioluminescent bacteria Aliivibrio fischeri (previously Vibrio  fischeri), which live symbiotically in the photophores (light producing organs) of the  Hawaiian bobtail squid, Euprymna scolopes. Under certain conditions, the bacteria  produce light that allow the squid to better blend in with their surroundings. Quorum  sensing actually comes in at numerous levels during the colonization and initiation of  symbiosis, but here focus on the quorum sensing that controls the creation of  bioluminescence. When the bacteria are free-living or in low number, there is no  bioluminescence, but when the bacteria are in high number, transcription of luciferase is  induced, leading to bioluminescence. 
Here are some aspects of how this regulation works: The gene lux I codes for a protein  LuxI which synthesizes a diffusible pheromone called 3OC6. When it is in high enough  concentration, it combines with LuxR and binds to the “lux box”. 
a. Suppose a mutation prevents LuxR from forming an active complex. What would  be the effect on this quorum sensing pathway? Under what circumstances would  the bacteria bio-luminesce? 
If LuxR could not form an active complex, this means it would not be able to  combine with LuxI. If LuxI and LuxR could never combine, this means they  could never bind to the lux box, meaning bioluminescence would never occur in  that mutated bacteria. 
b. Suppose a mutation (such as the ones that convert a proto-oncogene into an  oncogene) causes the over-production of LuxI. What would be the effect on this  quorum sensing pathway? Under what circumstances would the bacteria bio luminesce? 
If LuxI were over-produced, this means that the 3OC6 pheromone it produces  would be overabundant. Always being in high concentration, it would combine  with LuxR and bind to the lux box at a much higher frequency, meaning the  bacteria would bioluminesce much more often (or perhaps nonstop, if the LuxI  protein were present in a large enough proportion). 
c. How might you take advantage of the quorum sensing system to design a novel  antibiotic? 
Rather than traditional antibiotic techniques, there might be a way to entirely or  partially inhibit the activity of the quorum sensing system. This way, a bacterium would be unable to interpret the conditions of its surrounding environment, and 
would not know when to produce or stop producing substances. This could be  taken advantage of to reduce or increase targeted production systems. 
d. Describe how quorum sensing, in some ways, enables bacteria to act like much  larger, multicellular organisms? 
Quorum sensing can allow bacteria to act like larger multicellular organisms in  the sense that it allows for extra-cellular communication and activity adaption based on the surrounding environment. For example, a multicellular organism can  regulate its production of substances via feedback inhibition. Quorum sensing acts  as a sort of “cousin” to feedback inhibition, with the “feedback” being a bacteria’s  surrounding environment, giving the prokaryote insight into what actions should  be inhibited or exhibited. 
2. Cystic Fibrosis 
Wild Type: 3’ – CTT TTA TAG TAG AAA CCA CAA AGG ATA – 5’ 
Cystic Fibrosis: 3’ – CTT TTA TAG TAG CCA CAA AGG ATA – 5’ 
a. Transcribe and translate both of the above pieces of DNA. Be sure to label the  ends of each macromolecule.  
Transcription 
Wild Type: 5’ – GAA AAU AUC AUC UUU CGU GUU UCC UAU – 3’ Cystic Fibrosis: 5’ – GAA AAU AUC AUC GGU GUU UCC UAU – 3’ 
Translation 
Wild Type: N-Terminus – Glu Asn Ile Ile Phe Gly Val Ser Tyr – C-Terminus Cystic Fibrosis: N-Terminus – Glu Asn Ile Ile Gly Val Ser Tyr – C-Terminus 
b. What type of mutation is represented in this disease? What effect does it have on  the primary structure of the protein? What effect might it have on the tertiary  structure of the protein? 
This is a deletion mutation. Three nucleotides have been deleted (codon AAA present  in wildtype DNA, absent in CF strand), resulting in the absence of the amino acid Phe  when transcribed and translated. In the primary structure of the protein, this results in  a change in the primary structure as the basic sequence of amino acids is not the same  
(because the Phe between Ile and Gly is no longer present). This would result in a  change in tertiary structure, because the sequence of amino acids determines the 
folding patterns of a protein (interactions between each amino acid’s R groups; are  hydrophobic or hydrophilic, disulfide bonds, etc.). A change in which amino acids are  next to each other would likely result in a change in local R group interactions. 
c. Sometimes mutations affect gene regulation without altering the protein sequence.  Describe one hypothesized situation that meets this criterion. 
A silent mutation can alter phenotypic expression without changing the amino acid  sequence. A reason for this is that tRNA molecules are specified to individual codons,  not amino acids, meaning if a silent substitution occurs, a different tRNA molecule  will be assigned to this codon during translation, meaning slight differences in  molecular structure could affect function. We might observe changes in a quality such  as speed (i.e. one type of tRNA molecule may not be as abundantly available for  work as another), which would effect phenotypic expression by changing the rate at  which a gene is translated (slower translation = less/weaker phenotypic expression). 
3. The typical human gene contains an average of 8 exons. The exons average about 145  nucleotides in length, and the internal introns are usually about 10x that size. Using these  values, calculate the following. 
a. Assuming only internal introns, a 100 nucleotide 5’ untranslated region, and an 800 nucleotide 3’ untranslated region, how long is the typical pre-mRNA in  humans? 
8 exons x 145 nucleotides = 1160 nucleotides of exons 
1160 nucleotides of exons + 100 nucleotide 5’ untranslated region + 800 nucleotide  3’ untranslated region = 2060 nucleotides in length 
b. Assuming complete and perfect splicing, a one nucleotide 5’ cap, and a 200- nucleotide poly-A tail, how long is the processed mRNA? 
1160 nucleotides of exons + 1 nucleotide 5’ cap + 200 nucleotide poly-A tail = 1361  nucleotides in length 
c. (EXTRA CREDIT) Assuming that the exons are cobbled together in the correct  order, but that one or more exon might be missing, how many additional variants  of the mRNA could be produced, functional or not? 
1! 7!+8! 
8! 
2! 6!+8! 
3! 5!+8! 
4! 4!+8! 
5! 3!+8! 
6! 2!+8! 
7! 1!+8! 
8! 0!= 255 
255 possible mRNA combinations

1 
Dr. Micah Tillman 
OHSC0 – History and Philosophy of Science 
April 29th, 2019 
Research Paper II 
In this paper, I will argue that even if we cannot prove that God objectively exists, it is  still rational, and possibly even self-advantageous, to believe that God does exist. First, I will  define rationalism, and explain how this applies to a belief in God. Second, I will examine  Pascal’s Wager, which asserts that a belief in God is rational in terms of self-interest. Third, I  will discuss St. Anselm’s Ontological Argument for the existence of God, which states that it is  self-contradictory to argue that a higher power does not exist. Fourth, I will explain how we  cannot prove that God objectively exists. Fifth, I will explain how these ideas tie together to form  the argument that it is rational to believe that God exists even though human society today has no  means of proving God’s existence. Sixth I will consider and refute three possible objections to  my argument: that believing in no God is a stronger choice (in terms of self-interest) than taking  the risk of believing in the “wrong” God, that placing any amount of trust in the existence of an  entity which is impossible to prove is irrational and self-destructive, and a well-known refutation  of St. Anselm’s Ontological Argument for the existence of God, Gaunilo’s Criticism. 
Rationalism is a system of belief which holds that reasoning (i.e. deduction, induction) is  what guarantees any degree of certainty in what we regard as knowledge.1 An example of a  rationalist perspective would be the immediate belief that the phrase “I am conscious” is true. A  statement such as this, which we know to be true knowledge without any prior evidence, is made  using intuition and with the assumption that we can have knowledge of the world that has been  
1 Markie, Peter, "Rationalism vs. Empiricism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2017 Edition),  Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2017/entries/rationalism-empiricism/>.
2 
obtained without the direct use of our five senses, instead employing reasoning and logic. The  opposite perspective of rationalism is empiricism, which holds that knowledge can only be  obtained by observance of the outside world and the use of our five senses. Rationalism applies to a belief in God because while it is not currently possible to obtain empirical evidence that  would prove the existence of God(and thus objectively classify God’s existence as  “knowledge”), many still arrive at the knowledge that God exists, by way of belief. Through  belief (an internal thought, existing within an individual mind) it is possible to reason one’s way  to a knowledge of God through reason and logic and without empirical evidence. 
Blaise Pascal made an argument for believing in or taking the steps to believe in God.  Pascal’s Wager is centered around the idea of humans wagering their lives on whether or not  God exists. His conclusion is that a rational person should believe in God, and live and act as  though God exists.2 Pascal justified his reasoning with a two-by-two matrix, crossing the two  possible scenarios: “believe in God” or “do not believe in God” with the circumstances “God  exists” or “God does not exist” (see figure 1). 


God exists 
God does not exist
Believe in God 
Infinite reward in the afterlife
Human lifetime with comforts  of religion (and no losses in  the afterlife)
Do not believe in God 
Infinite punishment in the  afterlife
Human lifetime without the  comfort of religion



Figure 1: two-by-two matrix demonstrating reasoning of Pascal’s Wager.3 
2 Hájek, Alan, "Pascal's Wager", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2018 Edition), Edward N.  Zalta (ed.), URL = <https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2018/entries/pascal-wager/>. 3 Saka, Paul. “Pascal's Wager about God.” Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, www.iep.utm.edu/pasc-wag/.
3 
Pascal’s Wager reasons that if a (ideal, sin-devoid) believer in God were to die, they would then  experience the eternal bliss of an afterlife in heaven with God, whereas nonbelievers would be  denied this privilege upon death for their doubt in life, and be damned to eternal suffering in Hell  as punishment for their nonbelief. Furthermore, Pascal’s Wager reasons that even if God does  not exist, that believing in God still posits advantages in the human lifetime. If one believes in  God, they are comforted by the aspects of religion one can experience as a mortal: a sense of  community in congregation, a feeling of safety and guidance in the presence of an omnipotent  being, inspiration and motivation from scripture to extend compassion and generosity, and more.  However, Pascal argues that if one were not to believe in God, the human life they live would be  devoid of these comforts, and the nonbeliever would also find themselves experiencing the angst  and rejection a life without religious comforts would bring. 
St. Anselm’s Ontological argument for the existence of God states that it is self contradictory to deny the existence of a higher power. St. Anselm argued as follows: God is  typically defined as a being of which none greater can be imagined. Thus, God is the greatest  possible thing that can be imagined. Furthermore, God exists as an idea in the minds of  individuals. Any being that exists both as an idea in the mind and in our sensory reality is greater  and more powerful4than a being which only exists as an idea in the mind (e.g. a machine which  has been imagined, but not yet built, holds less power5than a machine already built). So, it  follows that if God only exists as an idea in the mind, then we should be able to imagine a being  greater than God which could also exist in our reality. Alas, we cannot. It would be contradictory  
4In this context, power is defined as the ability to act or produce an effect. 
5 Power. In Merriam-Webster’s Dictionary. Retrieved from https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/power  (see entry 1, definition 1a1).
4 
to believe that we can conceptualize a being greater than the greatest possible being that can be  conceptualized. Therefore, St. Anselm argued, God must exist.6 
As the human race, we currently cannot objectively prove that God exists. Physical  evidence or objective sensory proof of God’s existence cannot be obtained. For this reason, we  must apply a rationalist perspective to a belief in God. While some individuals may claim to  have had personal, sense-verifiable encounters with God, these claims of experienced proof  cannot be relayed to others in a fashion capable of acting as evidence. This is because it is  impossible to view the experiences of others exactly as they have experienced them, and we must  take each other’s word for what has occurred. However, this word can be false, due to a myriad  of factors. Therefore, we do not presently have the means to objectively prove that God exists. 
Rationalism, Pascal’s Wager, and St. Anselm’s argument all support the argument that it  is rational to believe in God. The theory of rationalism validates the idea of a belief in God even  when empirical evidence cannot be provided. Pascal’s Wager argues that regardless of whether  or not God actually exists, there are definitive advantages to believing in the existence of God in  both the human lifetime and the supposed afterlife. Further, St. Anselm argues that to deny the  existence of God is self-contradictory. Believing in God is a valid, rational idea which is a  beneficial non-zero-sum game (according to Pascal, a belief in God can only benefit one  regardless of the truth), avoids self-contradiction, and does not move to make objective claims  where impossible.  
A possible objection to my argument that it is rational to believe in the existence of God  is that it is possible to believe in the “wrong” God (e.g. believing in Krishna, the Hindu God of  love, and it turns out that Christological belief is what actually exists). One could argue that in  
6 Himma, Kenneth Eimar. “Anselm: Ontological Argument for God's Existence.” Internet Encyclopedia of  Philosophy, www.iep.utm.edu/ont-arg/#SH2a.
5 
believing in a “wrong” God you would subject yourself to more punishment than if you were to  not believe, therefore it would be safest to not believe in any God in terms of self-interest.  However, we can refute this by saying that holding any type of belief in a greater entity is better  than none at all. If God exists, then it would be better to demonstrate some degree of faith. If  God existed, it is reasonable to argue that God would show greater mercy to one who had faith,  but only misplaced it, than one who had no faith at all. 
Another possible objection to my argument that believing in the existence of God is  rational and possibly even self-advantageous is that placing any amount of trust in the existence  of an entity which one cannot prove is irrational and self-destructive. One could liken a belief in  God to saying, “I believe that there is somebody standing behind me to catch me, even though I  cannot see to confirm this, so I will fall backwards.” You wouldn’t take the risk to fall  backwards if you didn’t know if there was someone behind you to catch you, so why would you  take the risk to not believe in God if you don’t know whether or not God exists (and the  consequence of not believing and God existing is going to Hell)? To refute this, in each case,  respectively, the ideal assumption to make would be that there is nobody behind you (so you do  not take the risk of falling), and that God exists (so you do not risk going to hell for not  believing, should God exist).  
A popular objection to St. Anselm’s Ontological Argument for the existence of God is  Gaunilo’s Criticism. Gaunilo, a contemporary of Anselm, argued that Anselm’s method of  reasoning is logically incoherent, and using Anselm’s method, an infinite number of non-existent  things could be shown to exist. Gaunilo reasoned that using Anselm’s strategy, we should be  able to justify the existence of an imaginary “piland,” an island superior to all others islands.  However, to refute this, the premises of Gaunilo’s argument is inherently incoherent. The 
6 
conceptual qualities of a possible God significantly differ from those of an island; an island or  “piland” could have a variety of different perfect qualities, based on the preference of the  imaginer. However, a possible God’s perfect qualities (as Anselm imagined them to be), such as  omniscience, omnipotence, etc., do have definable maximums which would not differ from  imaginer to imaginer.7 
In this paper, I have argued that even if we cannot prove that God objectively exists, it is  still rational, and possibly even self-advantageous, to believe that God exists. First, I defined  rationalism, and explained how this can apply to a belief in God. Second, I examined Pascal’s  Wager, which asserts that a belief in God is rational in terms of self-interest. Third, I discussed  St. Anselm’s Ontological Argument for the existence of God, which states that it is self contradictory to argue that a higher power does not exist. Fourth, I explained how we cannot  prove that God objectively exists. Fifth, I explained how these ideas tie together to form the  argument that it is rational to believe that God exists even though human society today has no  means of proving God’s existence. Sixth, I considered and refuted three possible objections to  my argument: that believing in no God is a stronger choice (in terms of self-interest) than taking  the risk of believing in the “wrong” God, that placing any amount of trust in the existence of an  entity which is impossible to prove is irrational and self-destructive, and a well-known refutation  of St. Anselm’s Ontological Argument for the existence of God, Gaunilo’s Criticism. 
7 Himma, Kenneth Eimar. “Anselm: Ontological Argument for God's Existence.” Internet Encyclopedia of  Philosophy, www.iep.utm.edu/ont-arg/#SH2a.
7 
Works Cited 
Markie, Peter, "Rationalism vs. Empiricism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall  2017 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.),  
https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2017/entries/rationalism-empiricism/ Hájek, Alan, "Pascal's Wager", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2018  Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.),  
https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2018/entries/pascal-wager/ 
Saka, Paul. “Pascal's Wager about God.” Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy,  www.iep.utm.edu/pasc-wag/. 
Himma, Kenneth Eimar. “Anselm: Ontological Argument for God's Existence.” Internet  Encyclopedia of Philosophy, www.iep.utm.edu/ont-arg/#SH2a. 
Homan, Matthew. “Continental Rationalism.” Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy,  www.iep.utm.edu/cont-rat/#H5. 
Taliaferro, Charles, “Philosophy of Religion”, The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring  2019 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.),  
https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2019/entries/philosophy-religion/ 
Power. In Merriam-Webster’s Dictionary. Retrieved from  
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/power  
(see Entry 1, Definition 1-a-1). 
Swinburne, Richard. “Purpose of Religion - Oxford Scholarship.” Purpose of Religion - Oxford  Scholarship, Oxford University Press, Sept. 2007,  
www.oxfordscholarship.com/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199283927.001.0001/acprof 9780199283927-chapter-5
1 
Katie Chao 
ID310: Ethics and Citizenship 
Mr. George Heinrichs 
September 13th, 2019 
Writing Prompt 3 
It’s really difficult for me to process themes connecting these topics when they’re attached to such strong emotions. The main question it brings forward for me is, where do these atrocities start? How do the people committing them arrive at such situations in their lives where they feel spreading hatred and death is the only path forward? To respond to this writing prompt, 
I’d like to revisit an idea I address in my first writing prompt: “in the beginning was the word.” (John 1:1). 
Among many things, a consistency between these horrific acts is their use of language to institutionalize systematic oppression. The context and clichés that provide social meanings to our words are easily exploited and weaponized against groups of people. “When we repeat the same words and phrases that appear in the daily media, we accept the absence of a larger framework.” (Snyder, 62) . Look to the normalization of anti-semitism in the political narratives 1 of the Nazi party; how the dehumanization of a group became so central to a seemingly standard governmental system. Look to the term “communist” in Indonesia- how contextually, the meaning of the word was warped and abused to eventually convey the meaning, “deserves to die.” (To a lesser extreme, see a similar process with McCarthyism). Look to Rwanda, where 
1 Are we accepting the absence of a larger framework, or are we accepting our individuality and choices as irrelevant in the scheme of a grand system? This requires more time than I presently have to explore.
2 
Tutsis were called cockroaches; to our own news and the anti-Mexican sentiment- “job-stealers” 2 “dirty Mexicans,” “beaners.” “More than half a century ago, the classic novels of totalitarianism warned of the domination of screens, the suppression of books, the narrowing of vocabulary, and 
the associated difficulties of thought.” (Snyder, 61). How language develops and so fluidly evolves with each day and each word spoken can be the birth of new ideas, or the beginning of a heinous campaign. Language can give, and language can take. I believe, among any atrocious act, language is the place where it all starts, and also where it can be stopped. 
So, what does this mean in the context of our own community? Especially in a place where liberal ideals prevail, and we may already feel that our language is “clean.” It is not. But fundamentally, how can a diction free of bigotry even exist? What do we consider bigoted? Take for example the term “stupid.” Cosmetically, this could be considered nothing more than a dismissal; but what are we really implying? Google says: “a lack of intelligence or common sense.” The word “stupid” has been apart of my vocabulary for as long as I can remember. I might just mean that I don’t think an idea will work, or I might just be expressing that I think the way a system is structured is inefficient. But inherently, I think I’m saying that it’s lesser than myself, or lesser than what I could do. I no longer wish to use this word in my diction. “The effort to define the shape and significance of events requires words and concepts that elude us when we are entranced by visual stimuli.” (Snyder, 60). We cannot ignore stimuli and all we take in around us, for this information is integral to our personal sense and perception of the world. The Holocaust in World War II, the genocides in Indonesia, Cambodia, Rwanda, Bosnia, all hinge on the perpetualization of a language that calls for “purification;” the elimination of all 
2 Presently in Rwanda, the mention of one’s ethnic group is taboo. Does aversion to these conversations help or hinder societal progression of viewpoints? This, again, requires more time than I am allowed.
3 
those belonging to the category a word denotes. The unethical treatment of fellow human beings begins with language, and how subtly, and slowly, an institution adopts bigotry as the status quo. But in our narrow personal lives, how do we pick and choose what influences our choices when 
we speak? How do we filter the input we receive? How do we choose to react, or not react, in light of what we see and hear coming from the masses? My answer to this question, though flawed, is as follows. 
Speak like you mean every word you say. Listen with intent–like your peer means everything that leaves their mouth. And still, be forgiving; people are not perfect, nor are you. To be an ethical member of society is to view everyone as equal to you. To think of nobody as “stupid.” Our language, especially with English, is polarized, and desensitized. Adjectives are fickle. But I believe with every opportunity to use a term that even remotely lessens another being, there is an equal opportunity to use a term that fosters growth and respect, treating others as humans equal to yourself. “And he that shall humble himself shall be exalted.” (Matthew 23:12) .3 
3 For the sake of time, and my current lack of alternative resources, I quoted the Christian bible in my writing. In including these phrases I question the ethicality of using scripture which has fostered the very atrocities I speak against. For the third time, this requires more time than I currently have. I believe alternative wording can be found for the messages I use scripture to communicate.

What is the problem we’re trying to solve?
Before the modern understanding of spacetime was developed, Newton’s equation for kinetic
energy was accepted as fact. Einstein’s own equation for kinetic energy, which incorporates
relativity, does not appear to align with Newton’s, which, if unremedied, could cause a great
problem in the world of physics. So, we need to find a way to remedy these two theories of
motion, time, and space. (This is where a Taylor series might be helpful!)
Newton’s equation: ??=1
2??0??2
Einstein’s equation: ??=??0??2(1
1-??2
??2
-1)
Where
??=?????????????? ????????????
??=????????????????
??0=????????
??=?????????? ???? ??????h??
Why isn’t this explicitly solvable?
Without using Taylor series, this is difficult to solve because Einstein’s equation for kinetic
energy considers the speed of light when calculating kinetic energy, while Newton’s does not.
Because of this extra consideration Einstein took, it’s not possible to simply set the equations
equal to each other to show their similarity. We have to find a close approximation for Einstein’s
equation and compare this with Newton’s.
Why might a Taylor series be helpful?
Taylor series are a tool for approximating non-polynomial functions using polynomials. Using
calculus, we can use the power of derivatives to approximate functions near a specific input.
For example, let’s say we wanted to find a polynomial approximation for the function p(x).
The formula for finding the Taylor polynomial (and by extension the Taylor series) of p(x) is as
follows.
??(??) = ??0+ ??1(??) + ??2(??2) + ??3(??3) + ....
...where
ensures function outputs match at x = 0??0
ensures function’s fi
SIR models function by compartmentalizing a population into three main groups: susceptible
(S), infected (I), and removed (R). Using differential equations and two operators, ß and ??, we
can model the dynamics of an infectious disease, where ß = the number of social interactions
(opportunities for transmission) per individual per unit of time, and ?? = the rate of recovery of
infected individuals. This can do a great job of modeling how a disease spreads, but it doesn’t
take into account factors such as vaccination or social distancing influence transmission.
Since we already went over the differential equations that express the SIR model for a static
population in class, I’m going to show how a few different additional factors can be
mathematically expressed. To start us off, here’s our base set of differential equations. N
represents our total population.
????
????= -ß????
??
????
????=ß????
??-???
????
????= ???
One glaring inaccuracy of this model is that it doesn’t take into account a living population; it
assumes nobody is being born or dying. To correct this, first, we’ll introduce something called
“vital dynamics,” which essentially accounts for the number of people who are born, and people
who die in a fashion unrelated to the disease we’re modelling. To do this, we can add the
following terms to our differential equations. Note the Greek letter µ represents the rate of birth
and mortality (assume they are equal in our hypothetical model), and P represents the rate of
vaccination of newborns (0 if unvaccinated, 1 if vaccinated).
????
????=?-µ?? -ß????
??
????
????=ß????
??-???-µ??
????
????= ???-µ??
rst derivatives match at x = 0??1
ensures function’s second derivatives match at x = 0??2
And so on, such that
????=?????????????? ???????????????????? ??????????
??!
Using this mathematical technique, we can find an approximation for Einstein’s equation for the
kinetic energy of an object at rest (a non-polynomial function; see above). Let’s do that, keeping
in mind that we are differentiating with respect to the variable v, m0 is a stand-in for the mass of
said object, and c is a stand-in for the speed of light. Since these are constants, we will take the
Taylor series of only what is inside the parentheses of Einstein’s equation above.
??(??) = 1
1-??2
??2
=(1-??2
??2)-1
2=??0+ ??1?? + ??2??2 + ??3??3 +...
??0= ??(0)
??1= ??'(0)
??2= ??''(0)
??3= ??'''(0)
Let’s get solving, shorties.
First, we’ll take the derivative of our starting equation to find a1.
??
????(1-??2
??2)-1
2 = -1
2(1-??2
??2)-3
2·(-2??
??2) = ??1
Next, we’ll take the derivative of the first derivative, or, the second derivative, to find a2.
??
????(-1
2(1-??2
??2)-3
2·(-2??
??2)) = 3
4(1-??2
??2)-5
2(-2??
??2)2+(-2
??(-1
2(1-??2
??2)-3
2))
Benjamin Kitchen
May 22nd, 2021
Political Philosophy
George Heinrichs

On Political Systems and the Nature of Humans

The aim of political philosophy since its inception has been the fundamental description of societal structure, and therefore the description of human nature. For it must be true that all products of humans reflect their essential nature and all political systems, intentional or incidental, are essentially human products. If such is true, it is certainly an admirable cause to examine the fundamental theories of politics as to the degree that they fulfill this natural requirement and ascertain as to what theoretical system would cause the greatest natural fulfillment of the requirements of a society. I will attempt to examine the theoretical and historiographical lenses of past philosophers and offer a reasonable proxy for a society which most succeeds in aligning with the essential nature of humans.
    Plato wrote, “even in good men, there is a lawless wild-beast nature, which peers out in sleep.” (The Republic, Book IX) This belief on human nature reflects in his described political system and philosopher king. In fact, nearly every classical and modern philosopher has based their structures on one perception of human nature or another. However it is arguable that human nature is a direct reflection of human evolution. I propose that the defining characteristic of human nature is group thinking. By this I mean to say that humans have evolved, through the course of time, to operate in groups. This fact alone is not revolutionary, but I hold that this fact should, as it is more central and essential than any other human behavior, be defined as the basis for the analysis of history and historiography and the construction of new systems of government and political structures. Aristotle quite famously wrote, “Hence it is evident that the state is a creation of nature, and that man is by nature a political animal.” (Politics, Book I) And where Aristotle intuited, the fields of human psychology and sociology have placed scientific credence. One might argue that a man’s individual requirements are placed above the requirements of the group, but such an argument is easily dispatched by the observation of those individuals who give everything, including their lives, to a group cause. For what is a greater symbol of individuality than life itself? No, we human creatures are defined by the groups we form. Karl Marx defined political history through the lense of classes, arguing that each historical event could be interpreted through the lens of class. He says, “The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles.” (Communist Manifesto) And he is not far off. History is not in fact predicated on class struggle, but on group struggle. The social human animal is most naturally divided into groups and tribes and from that derives both struggle and the greatest possible harmony. In my framework, all struggles may be broken down into three categories of conflict: inter-group conflict, intra-group conflict, and conflict of the individual with the group. Every conflict of man falls into one of these categories. War is nearly always inter-group conflict, whereas Marx’s idea of class struggle falls under intra-group conflict. All human struggle is either against another group, an attempt to restructure an existing group, or a rejection of an existing group. And there is no history of man without these three categories. All revolution, war, extremism, hatred, and petty conflict is this nature explicated.
    Now it is pertinent to describe a society that best appeases this essential nature of man so as to best avoid conflict and fulfill the evolutionarily originating needs of man. I shall start with the goal of this government system, so as to guide all other facets of this theoretical society. Cicero asked, “What is a state but a community of rights?” (Cicero’s Republic) and I aim to focus on the word community in this question. For if community groupings are the basis of human society, the ideal society is that which most closely fits the essential nature of man. Additionally the core aim of the state should be the protection and actualization of the citizens. Accordingly, John Locke argued, “that being all equal and independent, no one ought to harm another in his life, health, liberty, or possessions” (Second Treatise of Government) As of course it is evident that the aim of government is to govern its people and regulate its citizens, the question may arise as to how these citizens should be governed in accordance with their nature as humans. In response, a system might be created in which a society is made up of constituent groups of people all governed under a single governing power, but all independently functioning as groups of people in accordance with the nature of humans to form group identities. In this system, these groups should be governed through use of representative democracy with representative governors being elected by each individual group. From this pool of governing individuals would be elected a representative for each substantial geographical area and representing multiple groups in this way. Such a structure would continue with representatives being elected by the body of governors below it, reaching at the broadest scale, a council of governors responsible for the nation as a whole. Such a structure would allow direct governing of groups at a granular scale. This governing of citizens by those most knowledgeable and related to the governed constituents ideally aligns with the framework of human nature as a small group enterprise. The greatest issue that arises from a theoretical society predicated upon many individual groups is the possibility of conflict between groups. As was stated by Jeremy Bentham, “it is the greatest happiness of the greatest number that is the measure of right and wrong.” (Fragment on Government) The proposed system of tiered elected officials representing increasingly larger groupings of the population is an attempt to avoid this problem entirely. One will find that there is an inherent compromise in this system between the natural state of man and the avoidance of conflict arising from it.
    Another issue of utmost importance to this newly-conceived society is the problem of education. For as Thomas Hobbes said, “the differences of men in that point come from different education” (Leviathan). And if education makes the man, so does the man make society. Hence education is a central concern of any system of government that attempts to improve the lives of its citizens. However, education is a subject of which it is very difficult to determine the optimal configuration. There exist miriad differing opinions on the true goal and means of education, and many education systems have failed miserably in the past. Nietzsche observed, “[the educated] make education possible for a very few.” (Anti-Education: On the Future of Our Educational Institutions) Education is often applied highly unequally and serves class or political goals. The goal of education should be to serve social mobility, enrichment, and community harmony. And therefore education should be a concern of the group to which the educated person belongs. The materials and capital of education should be provided by the state, with the education being carried out by the community. The curriculum should undoubtedly not be restricted to entirely academic subjects and should include community and personal health, financial, and emotional education. Education would be mandatory until the age of 20, with optional but free higher education available inside or outside of the community group. As such, the education of all citizens would be ensured and applied in the most harmonious manner possible to the nature of humans, allowing for highly individualized and compassionate systems of learning.
    Despite attempts by countless previous philosophers to make sweeping generalizations on the nature of men, their definitions, frameworks, and theories fail to account for the evolutionary social nature of humans. The only inherent truth about the human animal is that which describes its evolutionary basis. And in this sense, my grouping theory is sound. Based on this inherent human nature I have designed a government, system of education, and historiographical lens by which the annals of history form into a harmonious description of a highly social species.

Benjamin Kitchen
World Literature
Brian Crawford
April 8th, 2021
The Devil and the Mermaid
“What are you doing Richy?”
“Letting out the mainsail, what does it look like?” the boy snapped.
“What’s the rush?” his companion replied. “Either way we aren’t getting there for an hour unless the wind changes.”
“It makes me feel like I’m doing something,” The boy grunted in reply.
They sat in silence for a moment as the boat creaked with the rocking waves. The day was as gray as is typical for the Puget Sound and the wind was atypically unpredictable. The Sarah’s Sacrifice carried her cargo steadily windward, tacking periodically in her course. The relentless waves crashing on the old boat’s side formed a puddle in the hull, but the two travelers hardly noticed.
“This is going to take forever,” Richy remarked, glaring at the island on the horizon. It looked like someone had sketched the island with a pencil, its outline barely visible against the dingy gray sky. Richy thought it looked remarkably like a whale, although the sharp ocean spray and rocking boat made the island hard to make out.
“Listen, I know you don’t want to be here, but we’re here now. Let’s just get it over with, okay?”
Silence. Richy looked down to the box at his feet and adjusted it between his legs. He got out his towel and wiped the sea spray from the surface. The jib began to flap wildly, and the boy quickly reached over to adjust the sail. Instead of easing off, the boy steered further upwind.
“Richy be careful,” his dad suggested. “the sails are luffing hard.”
“Just let me sail, okay?”
They fell back into a tense silence for a moment. Neither could think of anything to say.
“I’ve told you about our family history in Nantucket.”
“Many times.”
“Well, I found out our family were whalers there in the 1700s.”
“Uh-huh,” Richy responded reluctantly, his gaze locked on the turbulent sea.
“We’re related to a man called Ichabod Paddack.”
“Oh yeah, the famous Ichabod. Everyone knows about Ichabod.” The boy still wasn’t looking at his father. He could tell the wind was changing.
“No really. He was one of the first whalers in Nantucket. Anyway, they say he battled a powerful whale called Old Crooked Jaw. He fell overboard and was swallowed whole by the whale. And what was inside the whale?”
“A Honda Civic? I don’t know.”
“The devil and a mermaid playing dice.”
“Oh of course.”
“Well, the devil told Ichabod that they would gamble for his life. If the devil won, he would get Ichabod’s soul. If the mermaid won, Ichabod would forever have to visit the mermaid in the whale’s stomach. They rolled the dice and the mermaid won, so Ichabod went every day to visit the mermaid.”
Richy was listening now. He sat silently tracing the name on the box with his thumb.
“But Ichabod neglected to tell his wife, Rachel, out of fear that she would forbid him from going to see the mermaid. But in his absence, Rachel grew suspicious. She convinced Ichabod’s father to go out with him one day. On that day, they once again saw the whale approach, and the father watched as his son jumped into the water and was swallowed by the whale. In his horror, the father speared the whale with a silver harpoon. He killed Old Crooked Jaw and Ichabod too.”
“Poor guy. That’s brutal.” Richy muttered, still not looking at his dad.
“I think It’s kind of beautiful. And anyway, the world was brutal back then. Still is.”
“That’s the truest thing you’ve said today,” the boy stated.
Silence again. Richy felt like he could read his dad’s mind. He could tell the older man wanted to say something but didn’t have any words. And anyway, the boy didn’t want to hear it. He got up to tack and his father watched him as Richy steered the boat into the wind for a moment and around to starboard. The wind whipped around their faces, biting their ears and forcing their hands into their coat pockets. The clouds had gained that striking contrast which forebodes turbulent weather. The island was now only about 500 yards out, but the wind’s direction caused them to progress slowly.
“Rich?”
“Yeah dad?”
“I don’t like the look of those clouds.”
“Well I don’t either, but there's no way we’re going back without getting this done,” the boy snapped. “No way I’m doing this again.”
The father took a moment. “Look I know this is hard for you, but I’d rather we’re safe than sorry. Fred wouldn’t want us to put ourselves in danger.”
“Dad, it’s fine. We’ll just be quick. We’ll have the wind behind us on the way back,” the boy argued.
The boy could no longer feel his fingers as he gripped the tiller in one hand and the box in his other. The ocean was swelling around them.
“I’m making the executive decision to turn back Richy,” his dad stated outright.
“That’s not your decision to make.”
“We can come back next weekend.”
“I don’t want to.” The boy felt sick, the familiar lump returning to his throat.
“Rich I get it -”
“NO YOU DON’T!” The boy nearly shouted. His voice was like a knife through the ocean air.. “Don’t pretend you know how I’m feeling.” He choked back tears.
A moment's heavy silence, then, “He was your grandfather, but he was my dad you know.”
The boy refused to look at his own father. Instead he studied the waves, trying to hold back his own tears.
Suddenly he noticed a black object in the water. A cormorant. Time stopped. In that moment, the boy noticed only the bird. In the next, he noticed everything at once. A jolt of wind, a splash, the tiller wrenched out of his hand, a yell, a wall of water coming to meet him. Suddenly he was underwater. The shock of the icy water engulfed him. As his life jacket pulled him back into the world, he perceived his father’s hand on his arm. The limp sail draped his body like a ghostly figure. The taste of salt and the overwhelming wetness fueled his struggle. With his father’s help, Richie freed himself from the sail and began righting the boat. In only a moment he found himself bailing. He filled bucket after bucket. Motion on motion with no discernible progress. He ignored screaming limbs and unsympathetic wind. Eventually they sat panting, partly from the shock and partly from the cold. Richy couldn't focus on anything except breathing.  Inhale and exhale. The conscious process of drawing in and letting out. Eventually he became aware of the sounds of his father’s breath beside him and looked around.
“The ashes! What happened to them?” the boy gasped.
“Right. There.” his father managed to say between breaths. Richy knew what the answer was before he turned. His heart sank as his eyes fell upon the box, it’s contents spilling into the water like oil spilling from a tanker. He couldn’t look away, but he couldn’t bring himself to do anything at all. In truth, there wasn’t much to do. The boy's face was hot and his hands trembled.
“I’m sorry Rich.” At that moment the words were unwelcome, but the boy sat down slowly.
 He summoned his will to speak through the constriction of his chest.
“Let’s go home.” The ocean salt mixed with tears that streamed down his face. Once again, he felt the touch of his father. Richy looked up into his father’s eyes.
“Who wins in the story?” the boy choked out. “In the end the devil’s game didn’t matter.”
“I think Ichabod does.” Another moment of silence passed as the two sat together, throwing off the balance of the boat. Unseen to them, a cormorant passed behind the now receding clouds on its way to sea.

Paulo Coehlo does something entirely unique with The Alchemist, and it might just change your life. This quick read is packed with parables and lessons that teach a sweeping lesson: learn to listen to yourself. The novel tells the story of a shepherd boy named Santiago and his journey to fulfill his “personal legend”. He meets an old man who reveals himself to be the king of Salem and convinces the boy to sell his flock and go in search of treasure at the pyramids of Egypt. Along the way, he learns to read omens from the “soul of the world” and to follow his intuition. The book describes Santiago’s spiritual learnings as a sort of “alchemy”, or an understanding of the true nature of reality that allows one to fulfill their tourist life goal. At times, the story is overly archetypal, to the point of cliche. The characters seem to be there only to fit into the archetypal structure of the story. The only character that really seems human is Santiago himself. Otherwise, characters, like his lover Fatima, come off as one-dimensional. They don’t seem to have any goals of their own besides guiding Santiago in his personal legend. Coehlo’s lessons and advice might come off as preachy to some, but his unique take on spirituality is refreshingly optimistic and resonates as true in many places. The book places emphasis on listening to the world around you and following your intuitions when it comes to your goals in life. Yes, “follow your heart” has been said thousands of times, but when Coehlo says it through his parables and metaphors, it clearly comes from a place of sincerity. The story itself is fast-paced, and Coehlo focuses more on the lessons the character learns than their development as a character. If you’re looking for character-focused literary fiction, this book isn’t for you, but if you want an interesting quick read with entirely new takes on what it means to live your life, pick up The Alchemist.

Benjamin Kitchen
Political Philosophy
George Heinrichs
March, 2020

On the Ideal Society
The basis of government is to ensure the rights and security of the persons which it governs, with the greatest justice, for the longest possible time. This is the basis and the origin of government, originating from tribal and familial alliances and evolving into complex systems of welfare, justice, and law. This is the origin of all governments, but it is not how all governments operate. When we evaluate the governing powers of current and historical states, it is abundantly clear that not all governmental systems are created equal. Therefore we must endeavor to discover the nature of the theoretically ideal society.

I must start by acknowledging that the ideal society does not and can not by its very nature exist. Like Plato’s ideal solids, all human societies are flawed by the fact that they are made by humans. However, it is possible to imagine a society which would minimize the irrationality, greed, and hubris to which the human race is so very prone. In my view, this society must be founded only on the insurance of justice to its citizens, justice being defined as the roughly parallel proportion between one’s actions and their reward or punishment. Clearly a person who has done nothing wrong receiving punishment has not been dealt justice and so has the person who has received gifts for nothing at all. I say roughly because it seems pertinent to include welfare programs of some variation in order to ensure the basic security of all citizens. As pointed out by Aristotle, a good government should have stability. A government that lacks in stability can promise nothing whatsoever in the long-term. However, stability should not be a government’s sole focus, lest it stagnate and its leaders become obsessed with extending the status quo for its own sake. Just as rotting bread should be thrown out, so should old systems when they reach their expiration date. Therefore our system should focus on justice and the rights of its citizens above anything else, for by definition, nothing else matters in government.

My ideal society includes a stratified system of governance. I imagine this governing structure as an inverted pyramid, whereas in a pyramid, power cascades down from the top, in this system it is inverted. In this analogy, the top of the inverted pyramid is composed of community leaders, elected directly by the population. These community leaders would represent a single small community or area and be of great numbers, each being lesions of their communities, acting to intervene in disputes and other functions of these small communities. They would, in turn, democratically elect from among themselves, a representative of their greater geographical area, for example, a single neighborhood or suburb. This would continue as the pyramid narrows, with representatives of towns, cities, and eventually the entire state. Each level of power is responsible only for electing the level below from among their ranks and managing the level above in the application of justice and governance. Perhaps most importantly, the leaders on all levels would be chosen from everyday members of the community. They would not need to be particularly privileged or knowledgeable, they would simply have to have the drive to lead their communities. There would be strict term limits of 5 years, with a strict prohibition on being elected twice. This is aimed at eliminating the existence of career politicians, for it seems that power corrupts and the best leaders are those who are not ground down by the harsh reality of governing. This system has some basis in the United States system of city, state, and national elections, but it is also based in the belief that human societies are naturally based around smaller communities. In fact, the most basic of human societies is the tribe structure - one which can be seen nearly everywhere throughout the globe and one which seems to be a natural evolution of the family structure. While it is a fallacy to imply that simply because something is the natural way of things, it is therefore superior to any other way of being, smaller communities seem to have some distinct advantages. In a community where each member is known, a person may be less likely to infringe upon the rights and justices of others and disagreements can be handled more personally. In a structure of smaller communities, leaders could more effectively address political and gubernatorial issues that are specific or specifically important to their community. The sluggishness of governance typically associated with a centralized government is eased under this chain of command while maintaining a grander vision and scheme for the nation. The old chugging machine is replaced with the assembly line. 

If each citizen is to be fit to lead a community, region, or country, it stands to reason that each citizen should be educated so as to be a fit leader. Of course, not everyone may govern at once and certainly not everyone would wish to govern. Therefore a system of education must be established which encourages diversification and discovery of interests. An ideal public school system would not simply terminate the moment a person turns 18 but would continue well into adulthood. The aim of this system should be to not only prepare and better the population for civic engagement and workforce efficiency but also to improve the quality of life those graduates of the system. In order to achieve this end, wellness and emotional wisdom should be a core subject of education. Each student could also be mentored by an older member of their community, as political philosopher Sage Overbay put forth in his treatise on education. Finally, I believe that universities, as they currently exist, should be abolished completely. Instead, students should continue their learning, with an option to attend a highly specialized institution with the goal of developing a highly specific skillset. This would eliminate the current ecosystem of private colleges that market themselves as the ticket to success. It would eliminate the ugly portions while preserving the working portions of higher education and presenting more flexibility to those in the system.

Plato, Aristotle, and Cicero, some of the most influential political philosophers of all time, each put forward their visions of a perfect society. They would likely have reacted strongly to my ideas. Aristotle, while wary of tyrannical leadership, was also arguable just as concerned with the possible implications of democratic government. Aristotle argues that both oligarchy and democracy are focused on their own type of equality, but criticizes both, saying “tried by an absolute standard, they are faulty” (Aristotle, Politics Book 5, Part 1). Aristotle, in his pursuit of stability in government, would certainly not agree with my prioritization of justice and impartiality in a government that allows for changing leadership and therefore does not hold stability to be a fundamental virtue. However, Aristotle would likely agree that the education system I have proposed would necessarily need to be paired with a democratic government. He writes that “In aristocracies revolutions are stirred up when a few only share in the honors of the state” and implies that a highly educated population is incompatible with governing systems other than democracy (Aristotle, Politics Book 1, Part 5). A highly educated population learns, through their studies, that they are no different from their rulers, and this inevitably leads to revolution. The Roman Emperor Cicero would likely agree with the justification for my stratified system of governing due to its appeal to basic human nature and argument that government should follow from its causes of formation. Cicero states, “That authority however must always have a strong relation to the causes from whence the commonwealth derived its origin.” (Cicero’s Republic, Book 1, Section XXVI). His argument being, in short, that the functions of the government should be in accordance with the origin of all governance, Cicero would likely agree at least with my line of argument. If the most basic form of government is a tribal or familial system, the government should, in some way, reflect that origin. He would also likely agree with the foundational principle of judicial equity and foundational human rights. He writes, “an equality of rights ought to exist, among those who are citizens of the same republic.” (Cicero’s Republic, Book 1, Section XXXII). He argues for universal treatment of citizens, but not “equalized fortunes”, acknowledging differences between individuals. This lines up with the foundational principles of my ideal society. It is hard to say whether Plato would agree with my ideas, as he seems to have had few opinions on any philosophical position other than questioning it. However, his ideal philosopher-king lines up closely with my governmental structure. Plato wrote “Then the man who's going to be a fine and good guardian of the city for us will in his nature be philosophic“ (Plato, Republic Book II) and I agree with him. For my ideal society, I reasoned thusly: if the everyday citizen is educated well, they are a philosopher, therefore the everyday person should govern. However, Plato would likely disagree with my rather simplistic definition of justice. Plato describes a conversation in which it is stated, “Then we said that it is just to do good to the friend and bad to the enemy, while now we are to say in addition that it is just to do good to the friend, if he is good, and harm to the enemy, if he is bad.” (Plato, Republic Book 1) Plato is arguing that the notion of justice is flawed because we cannot always distinguish between a person who is and is not deserving of a punishment or reward. In this he is correct, but I believe my definition of justice pierces at the heart of my understanding of the concept. Whether or not they would have agreed with my ideas, these philosophers certainly influenced them. Plato’s philosopher-king, Cicero’s definition of justice, and Aristotle’s practicality informed the development of the ideas presented in this paper.

Benjamin Kitchen
Brian Crawford
World Literature
January 25th, 2020
An Analysis of Morality in Crime and Punishment

    Each day, every person makes hundreds of decisions on how to act, what to do, and how to respond to situations. Each of these decisions is informed by each person's own morality - their understanding of right and wrong. Because each individual’s moral code is different and often inconsistent, it is difficult to judge a person’s whole moral character. While much of modern media paints characters as black and white, good and evil, it is almost never as easy to categorize real people according to these standards. Fyodor Dostoevsky’s ubiquitous novel Crime and Punishment is one example of media that portrays complicated moral characters. As such, it has attracted the attention of myriad literary theorists who have attempted to describe the Russian author’s techniques. One such literary theorist, Mikhail Bakhtin, described Dostoevsky’s writing using the concepts of Polyphony, Dialogue, and Unfinalizability. In a literary sense, Polyphony, which literally means “multiple voices”, describes a work of literature as occurring through the many different points of view of each character. According to Bakhtin, Dialogue characterizes the interactions between characters as a discourse between two individual agents, rather than dialogue with the sole purpose of advancing the plot or driving home a thematic point. The final concept, Unfinalizability, states that each character is continually developing, and will never reach a “Final” state. Whereas a traditional story might include a definite character arc, with a character having grown at the end, Dostoevsky’s characters can be imagined to continue developing, even after the story is complete. Each of these concepts is paramount to understanding the morality of characters in Crime and Punishment.  Dostoevsky’s protagonist Raskolnikov has a very complicated moral code. He has developed the idea that there are men, in the scope of history, that are above others, and therefore must act outside of the law to change the world. Through internal strength and force of will, they become above traditional morality. He believes that he is one of those great men. Raskolnikov is impossible to categorize as entirely good or evil because his moral compass is constantly shifting based on the situation in which he finds himself.  He is deliberately written to be morally ambiguous in his actions and interactions with other characters.
    Examining Raskolnikov’s dialogue with other characters revealsreveal more about his moral character and how it is portrayed polyphonically by the author. His interactions with Alyona Ivanovna articulate this particularly well. Alyona Ivanvna is a money lender who Raskolnikov owes money to. Near the beginning of the novel, Raskolnikov murders the woman and her sister in their apartment. His justification for this evil act provides insight into Raskolnikov’s moral character. He rationalizes the murder by applying his central moral philosophy: that he is an exceptional persona and therefore may act above the law as he sees fit. He reasons that Alyona Ivanovna is such a blight upon society that it is justified to kill her and use her money to do good. She is described as “a small, dried-up, miserable old woman” who is continually “coughing and wheezing” (Dostoevsky 7). This highly unflattering description paints the money-lender as a feeble, dirty, and detestable person. This leads Rasolnikov to see her as a lesser person and a drain on society. This perception causes him to conclude, under his own moral philosophy, that he can murder this woman simply because he is exceptional and she is not. Compounding this is Alyona Ivanovna’s moral character as it is portrayed by the author. At one point, Raskolnikov overhears people describing the moneylender as “nasty” and “rich as a Yid”. The man goes on to explain that she is extremely strict on deadlines and charges an exorbitant interest (Dostoevsky 70). With this description, it becomes clear that Raskolnikov sees the money lender as almost non-human. She is portrayed so foullyfowley as to be almost hyperbolic. Despite his belief that he has the right to muder this woman, Raskolnikov is extremely hesitant in doing so. He is consumed by self doubt. He says to himself, “‘Oh, God!’ He exclaimed. ‘Will I really do it, willI really take an axe, hit her over the head with it, crush her skull?’”. Raskolnikov is clearly entirely unsure of himself and his plan to kill the pawn broker. Despite his moral philosophy supporting his actions, he experiences extreme self-doubt leading up to the act. While he sees this doubt as weakness of will, it may also be a result of Raskolnikov’s moral compass. Perhaps this is Dostoevsky’s attempt to impart some semblance of regret into Raskolnikov’s thoughts. Clearly he has committed an awful act, but his moral philosophy is not one-note.
    As the reader’s knowledge of Raskolnikov expands, his interactions with his sister’s fiance, LuzhinLuzkin. Luzkin is a rich man who Raskolnikov’s sister, Dunya, is marrying him so that she and her family will be financially stable. Luzkin is representative of high society, weath, and the hypocrisy of the upper class. He is described as a “gentleman, no longer young, but standoffish, portly.” (Dostoevsky 158) His description fits a moderately wealthy man whose worse qualities are ignored by society because of his wealth.  While Luzkin is representative of high society, Raskolnikov views him not as a savior, but as a villain. To Raskolnikov, Luzkin represents the problems that he sees with society. Luzkin has power, but is not particularly exceptional in any way. Therefore, he directly contradicts Rasklnikov’s moral philosophy. From the very beginning, he is adamantly against his sister’s being married to Luzkin. He tells her “You’re marrying Luzhin on my account. But I won’t accept your sacrifice. Therefore, by tomorrow, write him a letter…with your refusal.” (Dostoevsky, 218) Through this dialogue and discourse between characters, Dostoevsky further illustrates Raskolnikov’s moral philosophy. Raskolnikov believes that to accept Luzkin’s charity would be a weakness on his part. After all, a truly exceptional person wouldn’t need the charity of others. He is selfish enough in this way to prefer his family to live in poverty than to accept charity. Through polyphony and dialogue, Dostoevsky has expanded upon Raskolnikov’s moral philosophy and his spinelessness when it comes to matters of morality.
    The detective Porfiry Pretrovitch provides further insight into Raskolnikov’s moral philosophy and reveals his potential for kindness and good acts. Porfiry is almost a nemesis figure to Raskolnikov in the novel. As the detective on Raskolnikov’s case, he most likely understands the character’s motives better than most. Throughout the book, Raskolnikov feverishly believes that Porfiry knows his crime and is playing mind games with him. Porfiry reveals Raskolnikov's weakness of moral character and inability to carry out his own twisted moral code. Raskolnikov states, “Well, go on and beat me, but don’t play with me like a cat with a mouse. It’s not polite, Porfiry Petrovich; perhaps I won’t allow it, sir!" (Dostoevsky 280) In this moment, Raskolnikov feels that he has lost in his battle of wits against Porfiry. According to his own moral theory, he has failed to be extraordinary. He is not really above the law and he recognizes this in his exclamation. But with the words "I won't allow it" he is attempting to excerpt control over the situation. Perhaps he thinks that by refusing to play the game, he can transcend it. This idea is further evidenced as Raskolnikov says "decisively", "if you need anything, ask me, if not, then let me go. I have no time, I have things to do." (Dostoevsky 368) Here, Raskolnikov attempts to demonstrate that he is extraordinary by seeming important and decisive. He is attempting to embody the "extraordinary" person of his philosophical writings. Additionally, he is embodying his belief that he is above the law by brashly addressing the detective. These interactions with Porfiry further illustrate his philosophy, but Porfiry also reveals Raskolnikov's good side. Porfiry seems to be able to see a better side to Raskolnikov, despite knowing that he is a murderer. Porfiry tells Raskolnikov "It’s not time that matters, but you yourself. Become a sun and everyone will see you." (Dostoevsky 506) Porfiry is begging Raskolnikov to change, something which he would not do if he did not see potential for good in the man. He is telling Raskolnikov to realize his true extraordinary potential for goodness, to literally emit light like a sun. Porfiry and his interactions with Raskolnikov are extraordinarily revealing of Raskolnikov's good and bad tendencies, and reveals his true duality.
Finally, Sonyaa and her interactions with Raskolnikov are perhaps the most revealing when it comes to understanding Raskolnikov's moral character and morally good side. In many ways, Sonya is a foil to Raskolnikov’s character. She is deeply compassionate and lives by the morals of her religion. However, she is similar to Raskolnikov in her moral complexity. In one scene, Raskolnikov asks, “how this disgrace and this baseness can be combined in you together with other contradictory and sacred feelings?” (Dostoevsky 354) This question reveals complexity of Sonya’s morality, but also Raskolnikov’s perception of her. According to his own philosophy, Raskolnikov sees other people as either great or base. Extraordinary or ordinary. However, Sonya doesn't fit either definition for him. Sonya directly contradicts the basis of his philosophy.  She is a child, masquerading as a woman, in order to achieve, through great sacrifice, a very serious purpose: keeping her family alive. Raskolnikov is a man, play acting the role of a “great” man, in order to achieve an extremely selfish and vain purpose: the elevation of his own ideas. One must wonder whether such a man can truly be considered great under any philosophy.
Sonya causes a slight philosophical shift for him, and we see a glimpse of empathy and charity in him. Moved by Sonya’s suffering, Raskolnikov gives her family the money sent to him by his mother. However, this moral act immediately followed by regret. He says to himself, “What a foolish thing I just did.” (Dostoevsky 29) In this scene Raskolnikov has simultaneously done an extremely generous deed and wished he hadn’t. This may be because his philosophy labels acts of generosity as unnecessary and a mark of weakness. Regardless, it is clear that Raskolnikov has an instinct for generosity and empathy, which comes as a contrast to many of his actions and stated beliefs in the novel. Like Porfiry, Sonya believes in Raskolnikov’s ability to change and to do good and her words are the provoking act that causes him to turn himself in to the police. She tells him, ““Go at once, this very minute, and stand at the crossroads, bow down, and begin by kissing the ground that you’ve fouled.” (Dostoevsky 462) Like Porfiry, it is doubtful that Sonya would demand action this strongly from Raskolnikov if she did not care for him and see his potential for good. Again, Raskolnikov is morally influenced by those around him. Whether because of his care for Sonya or from realization at what he had done because of her words, Raskolnikov does exactly as she asks. He finally understands the gravity of his actions and, for the first time, does not hide behind the moral veil of his philosophy.
    In light of his many acts of generosity throughout the novel, the court sentencing Raskolnikov gives him a reduced sentence. Dostoevsky has deliberately painted a portrait of a man not easily pinned down morally or philosophically. He is easily morally influenced by those around him and he is tied to his own twisted moral philosophy. Dostoevsky uses polyphony and dialogue to build his character as a painter uses pointillism to build an image, with unrelated interactions coming together as a full character. In the book's epilogue, Raskolnikov seemingly has a moment of redemption. He realises that he loves Sonya and finally understands the profound evil he has committed. The ending of the book paints Raskolnikov as a changed man, but it almost seems too sudden to be believable. Why would this complex character so suddenly find the light? Is his story really over? Bakhtin’s concept of unfinalizability tells us that it isn’t. And neither is Raskolnikov’s moral development. Raskolnikov is an effective representation of a man whose morality is ambiguous. He has potential for great good and great evil, and he has committed both. What Raskolnikov is really asking is whether or not good and evil can be quantified in the first place. He shows us that morality is often clouded and confusing, unquantifiable. It is extraordinarily easy to develop twisted ideas and act on them. Each person’s suffering and moral acts seem to be of different value to every other person. Perhaps Dostoevsky is saying that nobody’s story is over, no matter how twisted their ideas or how lost they may be.

Benjamin Kitchen
E400 World Literature
Brian Crawford
November 7th, 2020

Power and Repentance in The Faustian Tale

Christopher Marlowe’s play was called The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus for a reason. It isn't an uplifting tale. From the very beginning, it is made clear that Faustus’ actions are not in any way admirable. The play shares many similarities with medieval morality plays which had a single purpose: to warn the audience by exemplifying a flawed individual and their downfall. In The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus, Doctor Faustus’ obsession with earthly power over others is the reason that refuses to repent, for he wishes to exercise power over God himself.
    One pattern is extraordinarily apparent when analyzing Marlowe’s Elizabethan tragedy: the character of Doctor Faustus over and over again displays the traits of extreme hubris and lust for power. Specifically, his Hubris, or excessive pride, leads him to believe that he is deserving of power over other people and intelligent enough to cheat the system to obtain it. I will define power in this context as influence or control over the actions of others. In the first few scenes of the play, it is immediately apparent that Faustus desires power over all else. In an early scene, he summons the Devil’s servant, Mephistopheles, to be under his power and do his will. He cries, “I charge thee wait upon me whilst I live, to do whatever Faustus shall command.” (Marlowe 19) Evidentiary of his extraordinary hubris, Faustus presumes the demonic entity which he has summoned will carry out his every wish. This assumption essentially encapsulates his behavior throughout the entirety of the play, consistently acting only for his benefit and in pursuit of power. His assumption that the servant of the devil would simply follow his command illustrates his arrogance and overconfidence in himself. Mephistopheles refuses to become Faustus’ servant without the character’s eternal soul in exchange. The trade of temporary power and service of the devil in exchange for eternal suffering in Hell seems an unsatisfactory deal, but Faustus takes it anyway. What could Faustus’ reasoning for this myopic decision possibly be? The idea of a place where no person has more power than another may be unappealing to Faustus, but it is more likely that Faustus is simply so obsessed with power that he convinces himself to take this fundamentally ill-advised deal. When Faustus comes to his decision, he articulates, “The Signiory of Emden shall be mine.” (Marlowe 31) In this case, the “Signiory of Emden” refers to the rulership of the German city of Emden. Power is first on his mind. Power convinces him to sell his soul, not logic or pursuit of knowledge. Power over others is the driving force of this character’s decisions. At one point, two angels come to Faustus, one good and one bad, and attempt to convince him for and against the deal respectively. The good angel tells him, “Sweet Faustus think of heaven, and heavenly things.” While the Evil angel says, “No, Faustus, think of honor and wealth.” A strong argument can be made that these angels represent two sides of Faustus fighting against each other. For one, no one else seems to be able to see these angels. They also play into his deepest desires. If this is the case, Faustus’ evil side wins. He chooses power, honor, and wealth. This is a consistent pattern in the play. Faustus values nothing more than power.
    Once Faustus makes his deal with the devil, we see that his pattern of power-lust continues. He does not use his power to help humanity, as he claimed he would, but instead exerts power over others. The doctor persuades Mephistopheles to make him invisible and transport him to the Pope’s chambers. Once there, He steals the Pope’s food and hits him on the ear. (Marlowe 61-62) This petty behavior is indicative of a man who desperately wants to exert some power over a person that he sees as powerful. We see Faustus attempting to assert power over the most powerful people in the world. The act of humiliating or controlling these people carries a message of power. Faustus is telling himself that he must be more powerful than the people he uses his magic on. That, in turn, satisfies his need for power. By making the Pope look ludicrous, Faustus is saying, “I am stronger, better, and more powerful than you.”
Another example of this performative power is Faustus’ first request for Mephistopheles: a wife. After some convincing, Mephistopheles eventually summons Helen of Troy, said to be the most beautiful woman in the world. Helen can be seen to represent the very idea of beauty. She is described as almost the Platonic ideal of human beauty. But for Faustus, she is a symbol of power. Her Platonic beauty legitimizes his power. He says, “Sweet Helen, make me immortal with a kiss.” (Marlowe 91) This line betrays Faustus’ true reason for summoning Helen. He sees Helen as something to own that legitimizes him and makes him “immortal”. Having sold his soul to the devil in exchange for devious powers, Doctor Faustus uses it exclusively for his vainness.
    Marlowe makes clear that Faustus has committed many sacrileges and will pay for them in hell. Faustus repeats it many times himself. He states that he “must remain in Hell forever.” (Marlowe 94) He knows the consequences he faces for selling his soul to the devil. He knows that Hell is real, having asked Mephistopheles whether it is real. Why then does he refuse to repent? He is given many opportunities to do so. Early on the good angel entreats Faustus to return to God and repent. They say, “Faustus, repent; Yet god may pity thee.” To which the evil angel replies, “Ay, but Faustus never shall repent.” (Marlowe 45-46) The good angel is offering Faustus an opportunity to redeem himself and be absolved of his sin. The angel is essentially offering Faustus a way out. However, the evil angel knows something about Faustus that the good angel does not. They don’t attempt to convince Faustus to repent. They know that Faustus is so completely obsessed with power that he will never give it up, even on the threat of eternal suffering. As Faustus nears his final hours, the character of the Old Man attempts to convince Faustus to eschew the Devil once more, saying, “I see an Angel hovers over thy head … with a vial full of precious grace.” (Marlowe 89) But again he is swayed by the promise of power. Additionally, some of his final words are gloating over the achievements of his life (Marlowe, 94). Despite many opportunities, Faustus utterly refuses to save himself. Perhaps, having demonstrated power over all earthly beings, he is trying to prove his power over god. Already he has practiced “more than heavenly power permits” with his dark magic. The Old Man tells Faustus to cry for forgiveness. He must acknowledge that he is lesser than God to be saved and he cannot bring himself to do this. By refusing to ask forgiveness from God, Faustus is demonstrating his complete and irredeemable obsession with power.
    Faustus’ insatiable lust for power is a constant that creates a coherent line through Marlowe’s play. It is the conflict, the motivator, and the downfall of the protagonist. Faustus’ need for power over others is so profound, he is not content with earthly power. His attempt to snatch otherworldly power, and in the end, power over god himself, seals his fate of eternal punishment. Marlowe’s writing is both inspired by and irreverent to medieval morality plays. In many ways, The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus is Marlowe’s take on this genre. If this is true, we can expect a moral lesson to be presented to the audience. Like the traveling actors that came before, Marlowe is warning the audience against power-lust. He makes Faustus an example lest another might give in to power and kneel before evil.

Benjamin Kitchen
Brian Crawford
English 400
October 5th, 2020
An Analysis of the Tragedy of Oedipus the King
    Oedipus Rex, written by Sophocles in or around 430 b.c., has a clear focus on the concept of fate and OeEodipus’ attempts to thwart the gods. It can be said that those actions lead directly to his “fall from grace.”. However, Oedipus’ interactions with decidedly less godly figures deserves the same level of attention. Specifically, he repeatedly mistreats the characters who speak the hard- to- swallow truth. Oedipus’ mistreatment of Thieresias, the blind seer, and the shepherd causes his alienation from others in the play.
    At the point that the reader is first introduced to Thieresias, the Oracle of Delphi has warned the city of Thebes that they are harboring their former king’s killer. Oedipus, the King of Thebes, calls for Thieresias to uncover the identity of the killer. At first, Thieresias refuses to reveal the identity of the killer, stating, “How dreadful knowledge can be when there’s no help in it.” (Scene 1, Lines 101-102). He clearly insinuates that he knows the king’s killer but does not want to reveal their identity. In fact, Oedipus is the king’s killer, and Thieresias knows that telling him the truth would do more harm than good. He is refusing to divulge the information in order to protect Oedipus. However, he is not treated with the same compassion. Oedipus berates Thieresias with derogatory language, calling him a “wicked old man” (Scene 1, Line 118) until he tells the truth: that Oedipus was the king’s killer. Instead of being grateful the Thieresias spoke his mind, Oedipus immediately begins a tirade directed at the old blind seer. He spits incendiary language, calling him a “witless, senseless, mad old man” (Scene 1, Line 153) and a “child of total night” (Scene 1, Line 156), even threatening to execute the old man. He even demands that Thieresias repeat his accusation, only to berate him for accusing him twice. Oedipus is in a blind fit of defensive rage at being accused of murder. But even his advisor, Choragos, realizes that Oedipus is mistreating Thieresias. As a blind seer and mouthpiece of Apollo, Thiersesias is clearly well respected by other characters in the play. Choragos advises Oedipus, “of anger we have no need” (Scene 1, Line 189), clearly communicating that Oedipus’ behavior is unwarranted and unacceptable. Oedipus is alienating himself from his own advisors and a mouthpiece of Apollo with his rash words and mistreatment of truthtellers. He is completely unwilling to see the truth and instead blames the messengers even when they attempt to protect him.
    Oedipus again alienates himself from others near the end of the play. Having learned that he was adopted as a child from a shepherd, he seeks out the shepherd in order to discover the true nature of his birth. However, when the shepherd eventually arrives at his court, a mere suppliant, he is treated just as badly as Thieresias was. At first he is confused by the situation, not understanding that Oedipus has killed his father and married his mother. When he realizes this fact, he, like Thieresias, refuses to divulge the information, urging Oedipus not to seek the truth. This causes an overt display of impropriety from Oedipus. He threatens to torture the shepherd, exclaiming “speak plainly, or I will go hard with you.” (Scene 4, Line 37) This language insinuates that Oedipus will, “go hard”, or turture the shepherd in order to obtain information from him. This constitutes disrespect and effrontery to the shepherd who is himself a slave. Oedipus is very much punching down in this scenario, even considering his judgement is obviously clouded by anger and a maelstrom of fear. The shepherd is still hesitant to speak, but Oedipus tells him “You will die now unless you speak the truth” (Scene 4, Line 43), overtly threatening him with death. This mistreatment results in the shepherd giving in and explaining the story of Oedipus’ birth to him. Shocked by the realization that he killed his father and married his mother, Oedipus rushes into the palace where he finds his wife and mother has hung herself. He takes a knife and gouges out his own eyes, exiling himself from his own kingdom to a life of hermitude and abject poverty (Exodos). All of this comes as a direct result of Oedipus’ questioning and mistreatment of the shepherd. Had he not threatened to torture and kill the poor servant, he would not have met that fate.
    Often in the analysis of Ancient Greek literature, too much focus is placed on the gods and divine intervention. While it is true that fate and gods play a huge part in the story of Oedipus Rex, we must also remember that the story is about people and their interactions with one another. Oedipus’ short temper and mistreatment of others around him, including Thieresias and the shepherd directly lead to his alienation from others and his ultimate fall from grace. Had he not threatened to torture or bullied these people, he would not be in the situation he is in at the end of the play. Perhaps the Ggreek tragedies teach lessons not just about how to interact with the gods, but also about how to interact with other people. Perhaps the story of Oedipus serves as a warning not just to respect the power of the gods but also to respect one’s fellow humans on this earth.

It’s easy. Easy like water through fingers. Smooth like buttercream frosting. Sugar, butter, vanilla, milk merging into glossy ripples. The music pours out seemingly of its own accord. You just follow along. You can feel the bump of stickers under your fingers; blue, red, yellow, and purple smiley faces placed in patterns on the keys. The colors are faded and some of them are peeling away. You follow the blue stickers as you play, using them to guide your fingers to the right key. The last note dies away and you let it linger for a moment until it decays into nothing. 
“Ben that was beautiful!”
“You made that up? It sounds like the music on the radio!”
“Thank you,” you reply shyly, unconvinced.
You know that’s just how grown-ups talk to five-year-olds like you. Grandma, Zayda, Auntie Susie, Uncle Sam, Robin, and Matthew are sitting on the couch in the playroom. You call them Robin and Matthew, not Mommy and Daddy because you call friends by their names, and Robin and Matthew are your friends. The door is open and the breeze carries the scent of the hydrangeas from the yard outside. The early spring sun has transformed the garden into smatterings of pink, orange and red. The sweet spring air perfumes the house as golden light brightens the room for the first time in months. Robin says we have to enjoy the good weather while we have it.
“Does it have a name?” Auntie Susie asks.
“Gentle spring showers,” you announce. “Because it sounds like rain on the roof.”
“That’s a beautiful title. Will you write a song for me?”
“Okay,” I mutter.
“Ben, why don’t you play them ‘Evening’?” Matthew Suggests.
As your fingers touch the keys you slip back into the river of sound washing you away on its predetermined path. You hear the adults continue their conversation, half listening.
“How long has he been making up songs?” Asks Zayda.
“He started last year”
“He’s always been obsessed with music though,” Robin added. “When he was three he would stand on a cardboard box and pretend to conduct an orchestra with a chopstick.”
“If he keeps playing, he’ll be as good as Beethoven someday.” Grandma chimed.
You stop playing.
Silence.
“Why did you stop playing, Ben? What’s wrong”
A weed whacker whines in the distance, only interrupted by the shuffling of feet and rustling of wind through the old oak tree in your backyard.

Your face gets hot. You can feel the shame like lead in your stomach. The spring air, once sweet, pushes in from all sides. Sticky, suffocating air, like over-sweet frosting. You can feel everyone’s eyes as you stare down at the colorfully decorated keys.
“Baby what’s wrong?” Robin hugs you. You hadn’t noticed you were crying until you tasted the salt in your mouth.
You tear yourself away and force yourself to put one foot in front of the other, carrying yourself outside. Past the hydrangeas and past the still-green strawberries to the lavender bushes where you stop. You curl yourself up and lay for a second as your heart rate slowly returns to normal and your breathing slows. The familiar sounds are all around - birds chirping and bees exploring the lavender. But you notice a new sound; a slowly cascading melody. It lifts hopefully and ebbs and flows out of time. You recognize it - Beethoven, Pathetique Sonata. But the lilting melody also stutters, like the player’s hands just fall short of difficult reaches. Some notes missing, some chords wrong. The graceful, sweet sound animates you, uncurling your body and pushing you onto your feet. You steal a glance past the doorway and at the piano through bleary eyes. 
It’s grandma.

Justice is a term that eludes definition. Attempting to define the inherent meaning of the idea is a fruitless task, so I will only attempt to define what it means to me. In my mind, justice is a guiding principle stating that each person gets awarded essentially what they give to society. In other words, they reap what they sew. All examples of injustice are, to me, mismatches between what a person gives and what they get. For example, I might say that a person who has been generous and loving their whole life receiving harsh punishment is unjust, but a career criminal who has harmed many receiving that same punishment would be totally within the realm of justice. Clearly, my understanding of justice relates closely to the past actions of the subject. However, this raises the question - how shall we decide if a person was or was not deserving of a given outcome? This is where my definition becomes significantly more clear. If we care only about their contributions to society, we are opening the definition of justice to the whims of any particular society. Say, for example, a society exists where books are entirely valueless. So then would be a writer’s contribution to the greater society. Therefore I am inclined to define the worthiness of an individual by their moral contributions, rather than literal. However, this brings up an equally troubling problem: I believe that morality is at least partly relative. How can we define justice to be based on relative morality? I Would be saying that justice is completely relative. But it may in fact be. How else am I to define what justice is based on? It seems that the definition of justice does deviate to varying degrees in differing cultures and societies. What would be punished or rewarded in ancient Greece is certainly not identical to modern-day America. In actuality, what is justice but the expression of morality?

Benjamin C. Kitchen
Brian Crawford
L320 - Literature of the Pacific Northwest
March 22, 2020
Family and Community in Native Culture
The culture of native communities is a topic that has captured the curiosities of anthropologists and sociologists for hundreds of years. Again and again, the same question arises: how can we even begin to understand the lives and cultures of a people we cannot directly observe. We can only indirectly observe what living in a native community must have been like. We rely on primary and secondary sources and extrapolate the values of a culture based on artifacts, stories, and accounts. Often these accounts come from outsiders looking in. Often the translations of native stories are incomplete. But by piecing together evidence, we can start to paint a picture of native culture and values. A major part of Native American culture is the value of community and family, as illustrated by the art and legends of indigenous people, the observations of white explorers, and modern Native-American fiction.
The stories and legends of Native American peoples can provide significant insight into the values of native culture. Stories and legends often reflect values that are important to the society that creates them. Because legends are often used to impart a lesson on the audience, they illuminate values that the society deems desirable. Indian Legends of the Pacific Northwest is a collection of legends from indigenous peoples of Washington and Oregon. Some of the stories are retellings but white explorers and anthropologists, while some are directly recorded by native individuals. A major motif that appears many times across many of these legends is the value of community and family. One such story is the legend of “The Bridge of the Gods”, told by many tribes in Washington and Oregon, which tells of a bridge that spanned the Columbia River. 
The “Great Spirit” gave two brothers land on either side of the river and told them “I have built a bridge over the river… As long as your people are good and friendly with each other, … this bridge will remain.” (Clark, 21) However, the brothers and their people eventually “began to quarrel”. The great spirit punished them by breaking the bridge and turning the brothers into mountains. This story is a clear allegory for family relationships. The brother’s quarreling is the direct cause of their downfall. An omniscient and all-powerful force tells them they mustn’t quarrel. The bridge is a physical representation of the relationship of the two brothers. All of this points to family connections being valued in native society. One can imagine elders telling this story to children to teach them the value of family. Another legend, from the Quinault Indians, tells of Kwatee the changer and his brother. Kwatee saw his brother canoeing in a lake when a lake monster swallowed him whole. “Kwatee set to work at once to save his brother”. He worked tirelessly, calling “Don’t be afraid, little brother. I will soon set you free.” (Clark, 65) When he finds that his brother has been turned into a hermit crab, he is devastated and dies shortly thereafter. This story not only depicts a character who will do anything to save his brother but also depicts the value of family. This legend may have been told to teach people the value of family. It certainly depicts a person who tries everything, even changing the landscape around them, to save a family member from peril. It is another example of the family motif which is ubiquitous throughout the collection of stories. The story of “The Miser of Mount Rainier” is an example of a legend which imparts the value of community. It tells of an old miser who knew of the best fishing and hunting spots but did not share his knowledge. Instead, he hoarded shells (a type of currency) and sold food to his neighbors for high prices. He became so greedy that he decided to climb Mount Rainier to find shells. He found them but did not leave an offering, which the spirits punished him for. When he returned to the village, “He was changed inside… and he cheerfully shared with others” (Clark, 38), He lived a happy life afterward. In this legend, the man is punished for his greed and rewarded for sharing and actions which benefit the community as a whole, such as sharing knowledge. The people who created this story most likely share these values and used this story to impart them to others. The story has a pretty clear takeaway: greed will lead to downfall and sharing will lead to happiness. Throughout all of these native legends, family and community have been a consistent value. It is logical to infer that the people to whom these oral traditions belong lived in a society that strongly valued community and family. 
    Another primary source that exemplifies the value of family and community is the art created by indigenous people. Native art can reveal the parts of life that were most important to indigenous people. One of these art pieces is a collection of jewelry and decorative utensils that were given as gifts during a potlatch. The sign next to the art states  “The Potlach [means] to give.” It continues, “[They] express core beliefs and values'' such as “reciprocity and balance” through gift-giving. [CITATION] The practice of giving away this ornate art illustrates the value of community in native society. The practice of giving away valuable things to others in the community and sharing wealth seems to be a central value. Collectively, the value of the community was reinforced through this expression of reciprocity. Another art piece that exemplifies the value of community is a Saks or ceremonial bow. It is a long carved staff of wood with intricately carved wolf heads on either end and painted with blue, red, and black paints. The description reveals that these ornate staffs were used during celebrations and potlatches to “denote their clan crests” and to “direct singers” who sang clan songs “that transmitted their shared history”. [Citation] This artifact’s primary purpose was to communicate the collective identity of a people. They invested considerable time and fine artistry into creating a work of art that literally represents the communal bond of a group of people. It clearly illustrates the value that the community placed on the history and culture which connected and unified them. One final piece of art which illustrates this value is a full face mask painted with diagonal stripes and decorated with cedar bark for hair. The inscription gives it a name: “Mask of Ahlxula’tanum … a being who announces the arrival of Thunder.” The mask is “central to kusiut society performances.” When a member of a native community wore this mask, they were taking an outside and perhaps frightening force such as spirits or thunder and familiarizing it. Literally, making as a family. A familiar face wearing an unfamiliar mask served to communicate useful information for survival and also strengthen the family and community bonds that supported the clan. This artifact represents that process and illustrates just how much value was placed on family and community in native society.
Apart from indigenous peoples themselves, we can glean information about their culture and values through secondary sources and their observations about the native communities that they encountered. One such secondary source comes from the journals and logs of Lewis and Clark during their Corps of Discovery Expedition from 1803 to 1806. Clark writes “At the lower part of those rapids we arrived at five large lodges of natives drying and preparing fish for market.” (Clark, 322) Here, Clark observes 3 levels of the native community. He observes the longhouses in which families live together, he observes the larger community working together to prepare fish, and he acknowledges interaction and trading with other communities. This community relies on each other to accomplish everyday tasks and presumably shares the product of their labor. They even live in communal dwellings. Multiple families live in a single dwelling. Contrasted with the single-family homes that most of us are used to, this fact highlights the amount of value placed on community in indigenous society. Throughout their journals, Lewis and Clark often mention the practice of smoking a pipe as prevalent among the natives. Clark writes “Here we met our two old chiefs, who had been to a village below to smoke a friendly pipe.” Clark’s wording here infers that the act of smoking a pipe is a social one and might even be a symbol of friendship. The fact that this practice existed and was observed by Lewis and Clark so frequently during their travels speaks to the core values of native society. These natives’ well being depended so much of their relationships with other people that they had a ritual specifically to build community connections. Lewis and Clark didn’t always understand the natives they interacted with, but their observations shine a light on some of the core values of their society. We can also gain a better understanding of native culture by studying the literature of modern native american writers. In his novel Flight, Sherman Alexie explores native identity and the experiences of a boy and his struggles with his own identity. There is a large focus on identity in the book. His father is mostly absent and a big part of the book is about zits trying to reunite his family. The traditional family structure is disrupted and a main conflict of the book is a result and the attempted extrication comes as an attempt to reunite his family. This can show us that these ideas of indiginous values and the value they put on family is still present in the current day. Also, because family was such an important value in native culture, when that value is disrupted or a family structure is torn apart, it causes immense pain for those involved.
Another source that offers insight into the role of the family in Native American culture is the writing of modern native writers. One such writer is Sherman Alexie and one such writing is his novel Flight. The book centers on a teenage Native American boy called Zits. He essentially has no family, but the theme of family comes up again and again in the book. Zits recalls, “My father was a drunk, too, more in love with beer and vodka than with my mother and me.” [Page 4] Here, Zits nonchalantly claims that his father was “more in love with beer” than with his family. This illustrates a breakdown of the family structure seen in other texts. We see an abandonment of the community. Zits’ father is used to show what happened to the family structure of far too many native American families integrated into a white society. Those values of family and community were completely disrupted by white settlers. But our main character’s connection to those values has not been completely severed. In one of Zits’ visions, he inhabits the body of a young indigenous boy. He is enraptured by the boy’s father, exclaiming, “This guy loves me. He’s singing to me. Who knew that old-time Indian braves serenaded their sons? It’s beautiful. I’m in love.” [Page 65] This scene serves to establish the idea that native families were once whole and loving, but no longer. Zits years for this lost community and this lost father. Alexie depicts a tightly knit community and a loving father-son bond. Zits sees this and knows that it is lost, but the longing for that familial connection is still inside of him. Indeed, he tries everything he can to live that ideal, no matter how futile. In another of Zits’ visions, he sees himself as a fighter pilot. He says, “The last time my mother was happy she was on an airplane… Maybe I am flying to meet her.” [Page 109] It is significant that the first thought in his mind in this moment is about reuniting with his mother. Because every person that Zits inhabits is a reflection of his own thoughts and emotions, this fighter pilot represents his desire to get back his family. He sees clearly the disconnect between his own familial experiences and the family and community bonds of his ancestors. Zits desires a return to these values. They are central to this story which follows a child of a community lifestyle that has been all but destroyed. His yearning reveals the importance of these values to native culture and the devastation that arises when they are broken.
The role of family and community in indigenous society is clearly a large one. They produced art, told stories, and centered their lives around the building and maintaining of community bonds. This community focus is a large part of what makes native societies unique. It contracts with many of the values in urban society today. Our lives are centered more around ourselves and our small family units. We seldom give freely to others and the most valuable things in our lives often represent our own personal achievements. This reflects what we value as a cultural whole. The same is true for indigenous peoples. As humans, our communities frame our experiences and the way we think about community frames the way we live our lives. Stepping back and observing can sometimes open up perspectives the frame was hiding.

When the founding fathers of the United States of America sat down in May 1787 to write the constitution of their new union, the topic of representation was certainly on their minds. They had fought many battles, both with words and with muskets to realize their vision for a government that was chosen by the people. The right to vote is at the very heart of our democracy, for without it, we wouldn’t be one. However, this right hasn’t always been afforded to everyone. Even after the ratification of the 15th and 19th amendments and countless court cases on the issue of voting rights, barriers to representation for many groups still exist. The responsibility to protect the representation of citizens has always been entrusted to the courts and the lawmakers of our country. They must continue to defend us. All barriers must fall and an unobstructed right to voting must be afforded to each citizen if we truly wish to live in a democratic society.
The U.S Constitution does not explicitly grant the right to vote for any individual group. Instead, it stipulates that anyone with the ability to vote for “the most numerous Branch of the State Legislature” would have the right to vote in federal elections. This meant that states had surprising volition in the decision of who could vote. In practice, it meant that suffrage was only routinely granted to wealthy, white, landowning men and minority groups such as people of color, Native Americans, and women were mostly unable to vote in most states. In 1870, the 15th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution was ratified, extending the right to vote to all “citizens of the United States” Regardless of “race, color, or previous condition of servitude.” It was a considerable step toward the enfranchisement of all U.S citizens. However, women were still unable to vote in many states. In 1875, the U.S supreme court heard the case of Minor v. Happersett in which Virginia Minor argued that she should be able to register to vote based because she was a citizen of the United States under the 14th amendment. The Supreme Court ruled against Minor, arguing that simply being a citizen of the U.S. does not grant a person the right to vote. In 1920, however, congress ratified the 19th amendment, prohibiting denial of the right to vote on the basis of sex. 
Despite these extended protections on voting rights, there have still been obstacles that have prevented certain groups from fully exercising their right to vote. These included policies such as poll taxes, literacy tests, and grandfather clauses which indirectly suppressed the vote of minority and impoverished peoples by adopting poll collection policies that unequally affected minorities. In 1966, one of these practices was legally challenged in the case of Harper V. Virginia Board of Elections. The supreme court found poll taxes to be in violation of the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment. The decision came as a direct contradiction of a previous Supreme Court decision and it marked a change of tune for the protection of the voting rights of U.S. citizens. And the courts weren’t the only ones instituting stronger voting protections. In 1965, Congress passed the Voting Rights Act- a sweeping bill that outlawed any form of racial discrimination in the voting process and specifically targeted racially motivated policies such as literacy tests. The barriers were beginning to crumble. In 1966, the constitutionality of the act was questioned but ultimately upheld in the case of South Carolina V. Katzenbach. The Supreme Court found, in a 8-1 decision, that act was upheld by the 15th amendment. The wall had fallen, but the rubble remained.
    While in today’s society many citizens look at voting rights as an issue of the past, they fail to recognize that those barriers persist. The wounds of Jim Crow laws and unequal suffrage have left scars on our voting system. For one, not all U.S citizens can vote. The 15th and 19th Amendments protect the right of certain groups to vote, but nowhere in the Constitution is suffrage guaranteed to all U.S. citizens. Today, representation is still denied to currently and previously convicted criminals (depending on the state) and citizens living in territories of the U.S. In my opinion, neither of these constitutes a valid reason for disenfranchisement. Both groups pay into our government both literally and figuratively, through taxes and societal contributions. They deserve to be afforded participation in our core value of democracy in return. Our country suffers from a lack of voter turnout, not an overabundance. The U.S. legislature should expand the right to vote to these groups and truly guarantee suffrage to all U.S citizens.
    Additionally, obstacles still exist in the vote collection process that make it harder for specific groups to vote. As recently as the 2016 presidential election, states such as Georgia and South Carolina faced harsh criticism for their apparent voter suppression tactics. Fewer polling stations were set up in poorer areas and neighborhoods with a larger percentage of people of color and registration deadlines prevented 87,000 people from voting in Georgia alone. The prevalence of these tactics is in part due to a supreme court decision in 2013 which struck down a provision of the Voting Rights Act which required certain states to seek federal approval before changing their election law. This left minority populations vulnerable to voter suppression tactics. As the political climate of our nation continues to become more divided, the courts must take a stand to protect the voting rights of those who are vulnerable to supression. Over the history of voting rights in America, the courts have both strengthened and weakened the right of U.S citizens to vote. This is a time when the courts must strengthen.
    The Judicial and Legislative branches of our government have played a significant role in expanding the right to vote in the country. They have transformed it from a right that belonged to an elite few to a near-universal privilege. However, the work is not done. There are many in our country who require the work of our courts and lawmakers to protect their suffrage. These times require a more liberal take on the concept of voting and who deserves to participate in our democracy. It is time to defend that concept which represents the core dream of our country where every person is represented.

Packets and Privacy: The 4th Amendment in the Digital World
Benjamin Kitchen

In September of 1789, James Madison sat down to write a set of 19 amendments, 10 of which became the United States bill of rights. His goal was to lay down the rights and protections afforded to all citizens of the newly created union. He aimed to protect the people from government control and manipulation. One of the most important rights guaranteed was protection against unreasonable search and seizure, as laid out by the 4th amendment. Madison was remembering the random searches that the British soldiers had carried out on American homes in order to enforce tax law before the American Revolution. He also drew on ideas from the Magna Carta and the writings of his contemporaries. But James Madison could never have imagined the technology we have today. Nor could he have foreseen the implications of this technology on the way the US government conducts surveillance. Therefore, the duty falls to the court to interpret the 4th amendment in the context of the modern world and determine whether the guaranteed protections can be applied to these new technologies.

The effects of the 4th amendment with respect to civil liberties are far-reaching and robust. Not only does it protect the privacies of the US people, but it also limits the ability of the executive branch and state governments to abuse their punitive powers. It prevents the government from unreasonably meddling in the private affairs of its citizens. In a governmental system without these rights, a leader with a personal agenda could harass citizens who are known to be innocent without repercussions. Additionally, the protections the 4th amendment provides are fundamentally intertwined with all other rights that we value as American citizens. Privacy in our personal lives is what gives us the freedom to speak freely, organize, assemble, plan, and criticize. The ability to hold our own private opinion is the foundation on which a democratic government is built. Simply put, in order to have a democracy we must also have privacy. 

The 4th amendment also establishes a system of law enforcement accountability. In order for a search to take place, a warrant must be issued, probable cause must be present, and the warrant must detail the places to be searched and items to be seized. If a search warrant is not granted, or one requirement is missing, any evidence obtained during a search may be deemed unusable in court. This protects against frivolous searches of personal property and specifically prevents law enforcement from gathering evidence outside of what a warrant allows.

Over the years, the courts have interpreted this amendment in the context of new and revolutionary technologies. In the landmark 1967 case Katz v. United States, the Supreme Court established its willingness to expand its interpretation of the 4th amendment to include new technologies by ruling that the United States government violated the 4th amendment by using a microphone on the exterior of a phone booth to listen in on conversations. This established the beginning of a tradition or reinterpretation of the 4th amendment which continues today and defines the doctrine of expectation of privacy.

In 2014, the Supreme Court again marked its readiness to include new technology in the interpretation of the 4th amendment in the case of Riley v. California. On August 22, 2009, Mr. David Riley was involved in a gang shooting. 20 days later, Riley was arrested for possession of firearms. When he was searched, the police officers found and searched his phone without a warrant. From photos on his phone, they linked Riley to the shooting, for which he was eventually sentenced to 15 years to life in prison. In a unanimous decision, the court ruled in favor of Riley, stating that the search of his personal smartphone constituted a warrantless search in violation of the 4th amendment. They compared a modern smartphone to a super compact storage device - containing gigabytes of personal information on the person who owns it. Phones and computers contain our music, photos documenting our entire lives, and our plans for the future. It makes perfect sense for the 4th amendment to extend to these technologies.

One extremely important Supreme Court decision came in 2018 on the case of Carpenter v. United States. The case was concerned with the collection of cell site location information (CSLI). CSLI refers to the triangulating the location of a device through its connections to cell towers. Unlike GPS, CSLI is active whenever a device is connected to cell services, and the service provider has full access to it at all times. The court held that requesting of CSLI logs is a 4th amendment search and therefore requires a warrant. Most importantly, the court did not adhere to the commonly referenced “Third Party Doctrine” which states that there can be no expectation of privacy if a person shares information with a third party. Because the court did not utilize this doctrine, similar decisions could be made concerning records of web searches and file downloads, since both are shared with a third party. However, the Supreme Court has clearly shown that although the ways that we share and store information have changed, the information has stayed the same and deserves protection under the 4th amendment.

Despite all of this reinterpretation of the 4th amendment to suit new technologies, the future of America’s privacy amendment remains uncertain. The Supreme Court has yet to rule on some of the most important new technologies, including cloud computing and storage. Almost all children alive today have been born as citizens of the sovereign state of the internet. We live half of our lives on the internet. We learn, we socialize, we play, and we grow up on the internet. There is more information about us online than we maintain about ourselves. The courts have historically expanded the protections of the 4th amendment to apply to newer technologies and newer problems. We can only hope that they continue to protect us and the ideals for which the founders fought.

Benjamin C. Kitchen
Brian Crawford
English 300
October 31, 2019


Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, when you pick up a book of nonfiction, you expect to read about the truth of what really happened. You don’t expect to be reading about events that never happened. You don’t expect to be reading an untruthful account. But that’s exactly what readers all around the world were doing when they picked up Truman Capote’s In Cold Blood, for the first time. They didn’t know it, but they weren’t reading the book they thought they were. They were actually reading a work of fiction. However, the evidence will show that “nonfiction” is an unfit descriptor for Truman Capote’s In Cold Blood due to the author’s bias and warped narrative. Capote embellishes and even fabricates events, inserts personal biases, and allows his relationship with the subjects to influence the story.
An author that sells their book as a truthful account has a duty to present as accurate a narrative as possible. Any embellishments or distortions of the truth undermine this expectation of honesty. However, this is what Capote does throughout In Cold Blood. He frequently includes events which include intimate details which were likely embellished or invented by Capote himself. This is especially apparent in the descriptions of the mundane details of the character’s lives. In one instance, Dick and Perry are staying at a hotel. According to Capote, “Dick said, ‘You want some candy? They got a candy machine out there.’” (54) a deceptively mundane line. This line of dialogue establishes Dick’s childish and feminine side (a side of him that crops up many more times in the course of the narrative) by showing his interest in candy - a stereotypically childish thing. This and other examples of seemingly childish behavior serve the narrative purpose of deeper characterization. But could Capote have known that Dick said this? How could he have known this incredibly specific detail? It seems entirely more likely that he made up this dialogue to serve the story by illustrating a character trait. It is possible that this detail came from Capote’s interviews with Dick and Perry, but even so, memory is fallible. Dick and Perry themselves could easily misremember such a minute detail. Capote also took no notes during his interviews. There is the real possibility of misremembering details or unintentionally embellishing. He does this again, illustrating Ms. Johnson’s inner thoughts and worries. He states that she “switched on the TV” to “console” herself and worried “what if he did come?” (187). All this to say that Ms. Johnson was worried. Is it reasonable to think that Truman Capote could have known Ms. Johnson’s inner thoughts? Yes, he conducted interviews with people involved, but how could Ms. Johnson have remembered the specific detail of turning on the TV? Capote again embellishes the story when Dick and Perry pick up hitchhikers. The old man they pick up is sick and Dick wants nothing to do with them. In Capote’s account, he remarks “Suppose he dies?” and Perry replies “frankly, I don’t give a damn.” (209) Even with extensive interviewing, it seems highly unlikely that Dick or Perry could have recalled their exact words that day. Their bickering back and forth was likely invented or embellished by Capote to support the narrative. This embellishment does help to develop characters and progress the story. In this example, it reveals Perry’s compassionate side. But it also undermines the credibility of the story as “nonfiction”. A final example comes when Mr. Bell picks up Dick and Perry as hitchhikers. Capote writes that “they looked to him like ‘O.K. boys’.” (172) This minute detail of his perception is extremely important to Capote’s narrative. It provides dramatic irony, with the reader knowing that they are not, in fact, “O.K. Guys”. However, it seems dubious that Capote knew this small detail. This uncertainty of the truth undermines the credibility of the story.
In order to fulfill its promise to the reader, it is important that a story billed as a “true story” narrative isn’t marred by authorial bias or message. This is in order to accurately represent the events of a story and reflect the truthfulness promised by the author. However, Truman Capote frequently inserts his biases and messages into his writing. In an extremely telling passage, Capote praises Dick’s skills as a con artist. He calls Dick “smooth and smart”, remarking that “it was incredible how he could ‘con a guy’” (97) This authorial commentary lends a new angle to the story - the author’s opinion. How can we be sure that this is an accurate representation? How can we call opinion fact? Capote continues to insert bias in his characterization of Perry. Through the thoughts of another character, Capote illustrates Perry with ”a measure of sympathy” stating that Perry’s “life had been no bed of roses” (256) This is clearly an authorial commentary on the character of Perry. It establishes an understanding of the character of Perry that is in line with how Truman Capote likely viewed him. Capote even went so far as to insert commentary taking blame away from Perry for the murders that he committed. He writes that Perry was “under a mental eclipse, deep inside a schizophrenic darkness.” (302) Capote is sewing the idea in the reader’s mind that Perry might not have been in control of his actions. He is beginning to weave his own narrative into the fabric of the story. However, this is not a technique often used in true-story nonfiction. It distorts the truth and isn’t faithful to the full story.
This leads to a related, but much more distasteful note, the evidence will show that Truman Capote’s telling of the story was heavily influenced by his personal relationships and affinities for the subjects of the story. Through researching his book, Capote spent many hours interviewing Dick and Perry, along with many other witnesses and key figures. But he developed a special connection with Perry and this shows in his writing. It’s clear that Capote pitties Perry. He even describes Perry as having “always been ‘a loner’ without any ‘real friends’.” (124) clearly priming the reader to take pity on Perry. This is clearly influenced by how Capote sees Perry. To him, Perry is a figure to be pitied. He continues this narrative by casting Dick as the mastermind and planner of the murders which they committed. Capote clearly states that “the plan was Dick’s, and from the first footfall to the final silence, flawlessly devised.” (37) By painting Dick as the mastermind, he effectively deflects blame from Perry. And knowing their relationship, we cannot rely on Capote to put aside his bias and accurately reflect the facts. In fact, Truman Capote paints a picture of a self-aware and remorseful Perry. He writes the character of Perry as saying “‘I think there must be something wrong with us’” (110) a line indicating a questioning of their actions and a sense of morality. This way that Capote colors the character of Perry influences the reader’s perception. He creates sympathy in the reader’s mind. It’s hard to see someone as the enemy when you pity them. It’s hard to see someone as the enemy when they seem like a normal person questioning if what they did was right.
Now, an observant person might put forward the argument that Truman Capote uses evidence from the hundred of interviews that he conducted to support his telling of the story. And this is correct. He even uses direct quotes in his writing, including anecdotes like ‘He’s been in and out of here going on a good ten years.’’ (176) and “M’Naghten Rule (‘The usual definitions’)” (294) but the choice of what quote to include and what to exclude allows Capote to further express his biases. Capote kept record of all of his interviews, adding up to thousands of pages. Therefore, choosing one quote over another holds significant importance. For example, Capote uses the quotes “ludicrously inconsistent” and “inconceivable” (190) to illustrate a character’s thought process. These strongly worded quotes, baked into the body of the narrative, have a calculated effect on the reader. They seem to lend credibility, but are actually a story-telling device. They are in fact evidence of Truman Capote’s fundamentally biased narrative. Additionally, Capote inserts documents and primary sources into his text. However, they are carefully chosen to support his narrative. An example of this comes in a song sung by Perry. It goes,
“And He walks with me, and He talks with me,
And He tells me I am His own,
And the joy we share as we tarry there,
None other has ever known…”
Truman Capote clearly included this quote for a distinct narrative purpose. He chose specifically to include this song which serves to add to his characterization of Perry early in the book. This seems to be a religious song, judging from the capitalization of the pronoun “He” which implies he is singing about God. This frames Perry as a person with some connection to religion and supports Capote’s narrative of Perry as a moral person corrupted. These direct quotes and primary sources that Capote uses were carefully selected to advance his authorial narrative. The careful reader must take this into account when evaluating the factuality of the narrative presented.
Everywhere you look in the book In Cold Blood you can find evidence of Truman Capote’s biases, opinions, and distortions of fact. Running alongside the thread of the story is the thread of Capote’s narrative. This personal narrative warps the fabric of truth so that by the end, It’s unclear what actually transpired and what is pure fiction. Capote’s careful picking and planning creates a story that is, whether intentionally or unintentionally, fundamentally flawed. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, I implore you to come to the only just verdict: that Truman Capote’s In Cold Blood must not be considered a work of nonfiction.